This year it's all about single stocks.
It's all about earnings fundamentals.
>> For now, investors prefer to focus on
AI.
>> We've got an AIdriven investment
booming.
>> Tech leadership will continue to
dominate. But alongside that, we believe
you can see that broadening. A key
driver of returns uh in 2025 and likely
in 2026 and beyond is going to be that
core AI exposure.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Stocks trying to find
their footing after three straight
sessions of losses. A new challenge to
the rotation thesis coming down with oil
prices surging from 2021 lows as
President Trump orders a blockade of
sanctioned Venezuelan oil tankers and
the tech moneyball keeps on rolling with
open AI and talks to raise $10 billion
from Amazon and use its chips. The whole
kind of vendor financing experience that
we have seen this year. Damen Sassau
back with us for the next three hours.
Damian, it seems like we see a challenge
right now to this idea of immaculate
disinflation with just a touch of sense
that maybe oil prices could start
inflecting a little higher.
>> That's right. Commodity prices are
ratcheting back up here. You see prices
of gold and oil rallying, shares of BP
and Shell are rallying overnight. So
certainly uh the Saber rattling by Trump
uh is causing a bit of a stir here in
European equities overnight.
>> So every time this happens, oil prices
rise, treasury yields rise, and people
say they shouldn't be rising because
they're actually completely not related.
And yet that is what ends up kind of
forcing a new narrative onto markets.
How much does that potentially challenge
some of the aspects of disinflation that
we've seen so far this year?
>> I don't think so much. I mean, Venezuela
only produces 1 million barrels per day.
I mean, look, the reality is, you know,
inflation, the supply demand imbalance
in the oil market is so much greater. I
don't think inflation is going to take
away all that much from the news
overnight, but it's anyone's guess as to
where we go from here. I mean, JP
Morgan's looking for an average oil
price in 2026 or something on the order
of $50 to $55. We're currently at $58.
So that's the direction of travel.
>> So maybe a head fake right now. What you
are seeing in markets is a little bit of
optimism. Although not coming from the
place that has been coming up till now
for the past couple of weeks. It is led
by big tech. People enjoy the circular
financing. The vendor financing. Yay.
Bring it. S&P futures up 310en of a
percent. A bit more of a pop in NASDAQ
futures. A little bit of dollar
strength. Honestly, Euro dollar has been
in this 117 range for so long. It seems
like it's just pegged here. yields
slightly higher on the heels of higher
oil prices up three basis points to 417
and you do see crude popping 2.3% but
that is off the lowest levels that we've
seen since 20121 then it's on to CPI
tomorrow and of course a big address
from President Trump later this evening
coming up this hour Steven at Federated
Hermes as stocks look to stap slide
Elizabeth Hoover of the Hoover uh
Elizabeth Economy of the Hoover
Institution on what's next for US China
relations and Veronica Clark of Cityroup
looking ahead to CPI inflation data that
we get tomorrow. Maybe that will give us
some clarity that we did not get from
yesterday's jobs report. We begin this
hour with stocks edging higher with
investors awaiting a year-end rally
that's yet to take shape. Where is
Santa? Stephen O the federated Hermes
with a 7,800 price target on the S&P 500
for next year writing we remain pretty
far out of dangerous bubble territory.
We believe believe the market should
broaden and we are overweight stocks
overall. Stephen joins us now. You also
have a heady target for 2027. Thank you
so much for being here. Always great to
see you.
>> Thank you, Lisa.
>> So, why do you push back so much against
this idea of a bubble, saying it's not
that there won't be a bubble, it's just
that it's not dangerous yet.
>> Well, I all our clients are asking about
it and it's all the news. And you know,
unfortunately, I've lived through many
bubbles. The NIK bubble, the Southeast
Asia bubble, the TMT bubble, the real
estate bubble in ' 07. And uh you know
my experience with those has been it's
been a multiple of factors that kind of
define a bubble and too many people
these days are launching on one or two
of those. And if you look at all the
great bubbles over time it tends to be
about six different things that more or
less occur and they've got to kind of
conjoin together. All bulls eventually
end in a bubble.
It just it's just a factor of once
everyone gets on board then the story
starts to feed on itself and it it goes
to excessive levels. But this one here
in our view we've you know we've set up
this bubble monitor for our clients. Um,
and we got it up on our website there
and it basically is highlighting in
color, green, yellow, red, where we are
on the six factors and things like
overinvestment is a big thing. You know,
we got that at yellow right now. You
could make a case perhaps for that. Um,
you know, policy errors, not really. You
know, we've got a supply side driven
policy on the fiscal side that is
actually anti-bubble, if you will. The
Fed is still, as you you know, at least
in my in our view, we've been saying all
along the Fed's too tight. We've got Fed
bringing rates down to three over the
next year. Um whether they do it in
January or March, I don't think it
matters so much that we're heading to
three, but for now, uh rates are rally
too high. Uh you know, excessive
valuations usually are part of what you
see in a bubble. We're nowhere near
there right now.
>> Okay, so all of this sounds good. Part
of the problem that people have is they
understand that the excesses can and
probably will get more extreme. At the
same time, when you see vendor
financing, circular financing, there was
a chart that was just fabulous in a
story this morning from Bloomberg where
it was just a circle with lots of arrows
going back and forth with each of the
big tech players. At a certain point,
you know, something smells a little
rotten. Something is going to be not
totally kosher when you go get to the
end of the day. How do you invest
knowing that knowing that some of this
has never ended well in the past?
>> Yeah, there is some circle of financing,
but remember the people doing the
financing are have established
businesses that are throwing off
enormous cash flow and are growing at
double-digit rates. So, it's not like
you're dealing with a fantasm here.
You've got we've never seen something
like this. You've got these giant
companies that are throwing enormous
amounts of cash and that's the cash
that's underneath the circular
financing. I'm not saying it's is an
easy thing to digest, but for now at
least, we don't think we're near, you
know, a kind of hyper speculation level
that you you'd see in a real bubble. And
you know, our own view is on on the
MAG7. You they are the core of this era,
if you will, this industrial revolution.
But we're being selective there and we
think the market is too. I mean if you
look at some of the big players in that
space they're not trading at excessive
valuations
and um we think you can play relative
value there. We were heavy in Google
earlier in the year. We we're Amazon now
I think is the value play in the MAG7. I
think you can play it like that and then
play the broadening out trade. You know,
the Fed,
one of the things that a lot of people
don't get is that the Fed doesn't really
affect much of the economy anymore. It
had a big effect when the economy was
asset heavy.
>> Yeah.
>> And asset heavy means you got to
finance. You know, by the way, another
aspect of this bubble is not a lot of
debt financing, not a lot of excess
liquidity. Margin levels are very low as
an example. But
>> Stephen, I'd like to go back to that and
touch on that. You and the team have
federated. You mentioned 3% Fed funds by
the end of next year. That's three more
cuts. That's more than the market's
currently expecting. Do you base that
call on fundamentals, inflation, growth
expectations, or is it more a function
of the two Kevin, a more doubbish Fed,
Trump's impact on the Fed going through?
I mean, what are your thoughts on being
a little bit more dovish than the market
here?
>> Yeah, look, um, we don't Damian, we
really don't care much about what the
Fed says, honestly. Um, they tend to be
rearview data driven. Fine. We try to
predict what the data they're going to
look at looks like. And as I was about
to say about the economy, the Fed and a
lot of people comment the Fed, the
economy, etc., most of the economy, the
Fed doesn't affect. It's asset light. It
doesn't actually need interest rates to
finance itself. So, it's only really now
one sector of the economy, the regional
banks, the housing sector that's in a
kind of recession because they are very
interest.
And so what we see here is in that
sector, the Fed does need to cut. And we
think, you know, with the employment
levels aren't going to pick up here,
you've got that sector having probably
relatively higher unemployment. The rest
of the economy, you've got AI driving
jobs down. You saw the jobs number
yesterday. It's relatively flat.
Particularly if you take out the 60,000
that they say is overstated. You're
basically at zero. So the Fed has every
reason be with that mandate to keep
cutting and the inflation rates
unfortunately you know the established
economists all keep predicting the
inflation is going to come through the
tariffs blah blah blah every single
month the number comes in under the
consensus.
>> Well Stephen I mean I love the tie merry
Christmas. Is that a nutcracker tie? I
mean talk to us about the US consumer
the state of the US consumer as we
approach the holiday season and into
2026. Do you expect the US consumer to
be as resilient as it's been in years
past?
>> As a broad
statement, yes. Right. You've got uh
real wages are rising. Um on average,
people's incomes are going up higher
than the inflation rate. So, yeah, the
the consumer should be okay. We don't
think it's a boom, but the the consumer
seems to be in pretty solid shape. And
um you know, that's another aspect here
of a market that looks pretty good to
us. You know, you're talking about the
jobs number and you were saying look at
that and it shows how weak things are.
10 other people would say look at how
strong things are because you actually
saw the participation rate uh go up and
you saw more people come into the labor
market and that was the reason why the
unemployment rate went up. How easy is
it to have conviction about this
rotation trade at a time of such
incredible confusion where we haven't
gotten data and the data that we have
gotten has been just evidence for
whatever your conviction was before it
came out.
Well, Lisa, we have a lot of soft data
at Federate Hermes, right? We've got our
analy 160 investment people work with
me. We're out talking to companies all
the time. So, we have a pretty good
sense of what's happening in the
economy. And what we're hearing and
seeing is the economy is sort of
marching along. Okay. People's spending
plans are higher for next year. They're
not planning on hiring a lot of people.
So, the job market to us is kind of a
Goldilock situation from a Fed
perspective. Not too hot, not too cold.
And uh yeah, so it's not falling out. I
just came back from Europe. Europe's not
that exciting, but the odds of a
pullback there are low. If anything, you
know, people's numbers are probably low
relative to where they're going to be
because you got a lot of stimulus coming
in. Same way on this side, we've got,
you know, as much as we're marching
along here, we've got a lot of stimulus
coming next year. the IRS checks, you
guys have been talking about this, um,
you know, could give some extra stimulus
to the economy and the productivity
gains are going to be coming. I mean,
look at the productivity increases here,
right? You've got a flat labor market
and GDP. We've got GDP at three for next
year. I think the consensus is two, but
either way, you're going to have a
pretty good lift in productivity. That's
good for profits. profits drive the
stock market
>> which is the reason why UC7800 and the
reason why a lot of people also are
getting pretty bullish heading into 2026
Stephen O you're going to be sticking
with us I'm very pleased to say right
now let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning here is your
bloomber brief with the on dehyra
>> good morning Lisa the US is preparing a
fresh round of sanctions on Russia's
energy sector should President Vladimir
Putin reject the latest peace agreement
with Ukraine the new measures could
target vessels in Russia's shadow fleet
of tankers and the traders who
facilitate transactions with sources
saying they may be unveiled as early as
this week. Meanwhile, the son of
Hollywood legend Rob Reiner has been
charged with firstdegree murder in the
deaths of his father and his mother,
Michelle Singer Reiner. Nick Reiner was
arrested Sunday night after his parents
were found dead in their Brentwood home.
The Los Angeles County District Attorney
says prosecutors are still deciding
whether or not to seek the death
penalty.
And the California DMV could suspend
Tesla sales in the states for 30 days if
the company doesn't change its marketing
practices. The agency accuses Tesla of
exaggerating the capabilities of its
autopilot and full self-driving
software. Tesla can avoid suspension by
filing a statement that it will stop
using the name autopilot to describe its
technology. That should brief Lisa.
>> Thank you so much. Up next, rising
pressure on Venezuela.
We're dismantling the cartels very
rapidly
and uh they are being declared
enemies of the United States of America.
>> Joining us next, Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall and Will Kennedy to break down
what's going on and what's at play. This
is Bloomberg Surveillance.
Let's try this again and maybe we can
get some gains. Right now we are seeing
uh stocks inflecting higher after three
straight sessions of losses. Up a third
of a percent on S&P futures. A brighter
outlook potentially for an economy with
a mly reading on the jobs report. Some
people saying it's good, some people
saying it's bad, leaving the Fed pretty
much in the same place when it comes to
the chances of cutting rates as soon as
January. Euro dollar at that 117 mark.
Although today it is the euro losing
ground versus the dollar and 10ear
yields inlecting higher three basis
points to 417 on this crude prices
surging 2.2% after reaching the lowest
level since February 2021. on what's
going on with a blockade potentially of
Venezuelan oil ships under surveillance
this morning. Rising pressure on
Venezuela.
>> Venezuela emptied their jails into our
country, but others have also. We're
going to start hitting them on land,
which is a lot easier to do, frankly.
But, uh, these are a direct military
threat. We are dismantling the cartels
very rapidly
and uh they are being declared
enemies of the United States of America.
>> Here's the latest. President Donald
Trump designating the Venezuelan
government as a quote foreign terrorist
organization and ordering a complete
blockade of sanctioned oil tankers
moving in and out of the country. Our
team coverage starts right now with
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall and Will
Kennedy. Tyler, I want to start with
you. Do you have a sense of what the
endgame is? what the US's goal
ultimately is with some of the military
activity around Venezuela.
>> Hey Lisa, good morning. Well, we had
reporting from Bloomberg News last week
that we would start to see this new
phase in the United States strategy
against Venezuela with the designed goal
to have Nicholas Maduro relinquish
power. And we're starting to see that
new phase. It was kicked off off last
week when the US moved to seize a
foreign oil tanker for the first time
since 2014. And now this latest round of
escalation and this quarantine on
sanctioned oil tankers from coming to or
from Venezuela. Just the latest
escalation and now targeting Venezuela's
lifeline of oil revenue for a country
that has already been struggling
financially. Now, it's important for us
to note that it's not totally clear how
this uh blockade is ultimately going to
be enforced or implemented, but we are
already starting to see some intended
impacts before since the administration
had telegraphed that it was coming. Just
yesterday, we saw four oil super tankers
that were headed to Venezuela ultimately
turn around and reverse course. Now, the
signals that we've gotten from the
administration, I know you're going to
talk more about this when it comes to
the oil markets, but it appears White
House officials aren't overly concerned
what this is going to mean for the
American consumer via potentially higher
oil prices just given that Venezuela's
global output has fallen so sharply. I
will say, of course, this comes against
that backdrop that the US has now built
up its largest military presence in the
region uh in really uh decades as we
have now confirmed more than 20 strikes
against alleged drug trafficking votes,
Lisa, in just the past few weeks alone.
>> Thank you so much, Tyler. And yeah,
really on the story of supply and
demand, Will Kennedy joining us. Do we
have a sense of how much oil Venezuela
has been producing, how much it could be
producing, and whether this is a
potential supply side shike down the
road or potentially a demand side shock.
In other words, is this going to be an
issue of actually taking barrels off the
market or could this potentially lead to
increased production in the notsodistant
future?
>> I think you're exactly right, Lisa, to
focus on the divergence between the
possible short-term implications and
long-term implications. In the short
term, as you and Tyler have both pointed
out, Venezuela isn't currently a huge
player in the oil market. We see its
exports at just over half a million
barrels a day. And in the context of a
global oil market, which is 100 million
barrels plus every day, that is a pretty
marginal effect, especially at a time
when most analysts will tell you that
the market is heavily over supplied.
We've seen a steady steady slide in
benchmark prices. Brent traded at below
60 yesterday for the first time in since
May. So I think this will disrupt
exports from Venezuela and put all the
financial pressure on the majority
regime that Tyler described, but it will
not have a huge market impact. We've
seen a little bit of a tick up today.
But that's in the context of a pretty
bearish overall market. But as you say,
Lisa, in the medium term, if we got a
change of regime in Venezuela and that
opened the way to the lifting of
sanctions on the oil regime and perhaps
more American investment, Chevron is
there and will remain there, but more
American investment in the Venezuelan
oil industry, you could see more
Venezuelan exports come into the market,
which again would add to the slightly
bearish picture that we've been
describing in the global oil market in
the medium term. Venezuela, remember,
sits on some of the world's biggest oil
reserves. There is plenty of oil to
exploit. It's not happening right now
because of the way that the socialist
regime has run down the oil industry
over the last two decades plus, but the
potential is certainly there.
>> Will Kennedy, Tyler Kenner, both of you,
thank you so much for being with us.
Steven O still with us from Federated
Hermes. Steve, how do you look at the
US's increased involvement in South
America when it comes to an investing
thesis? Is this a positive thing? Does
this lead to more sort of inflow of
commodities? Is this a potential
catalyst, existential risk that could
come into play in 2026?
>> I I don't see it as an existential risk,
Lisa. It looks to me like it's more
upside than downside, assuming you can
get control of of uh the Venezuelan oil
supplies and, you know, bring in um you
know, Western companies to build up as
you just reported on. That's probably
good for the US economy and probably
good for the global economy and um
probably good for the people of
Venezuela who've been suffering under
this regime. So as as nasty as this
business is probably the intermediate I
mean you said it with your question the
longer term picture is probably positive
not negative. Uh you know if they it
seems like there comes some reasonable
setup here I would guess. Well, well,
Stephen, I think Venezuela is just the
tip of the iceberg, but if you want to
focus on South America, you can't ignore
USMCA, which may very well get trumped
by July 1st of next year. And just this
weekend, we have the EU Murkus ordeal,
right, which Emanuel Mcronone might
derail. So, talk to us about the
prospects for Latin America, for for for
for Mexico, for Brazil as we look ahead
to the new year.
>> We we think the prospects are actually
pretty good actually in our emerging
markets portfolios. We've added weight
to Latin America um with the idea that
things are probably moving in the right
direction. You got a number of elections
next year that probably should shift
things even more towards the US and and
towards better prosperity for the
region. I I I'm not sure what you mean
by USMCA, but I I I guess that the the
free trade zone will be maybe expanded
and improved. That that would be where I
I would think we're heading here.
>> Right. Right. Well, with US MCA, I'm
talking about the US, Mexico, Canada
trade deal, $2 trillion trade deal. But
look, you know, you know, you mentioned
those elections and you look, I run
emerging market fixed income research
for Bloomberg Intelligence, Peru, Chile,
Brazil. It's right on my, it's right in
my wheelhouse. Talk to us about these
elections that you're going to see in
Brazil specifically. I'm going to be
there next week. What are you expecting
to come out of Brazil? Do you expect
Lula? Do you expect a more popular
shift? You mentioned a shift back toward
the US. What's in store there?
>> Uh, I don't know. Our our guys think the
shift is probably more back towards the
US. Something a little more back towards
the middle. I mean, they've experimented
with a pretty far-left regime. And uh
probably your reporting is seeing that,
right? I mean, in the polls. So, that
that would probably be positive,
wouldn't it? I mean, Brazil is a huge
economy.
>> Yeah.
>> And uh you know, bringing them more into
a kind of trade zone, if you will, of
the West here uh would would be a good
thing for the US economy. another reason
to be bullish. I guess you know
>> you step back a lot of people who come
on the show have said that they want to
diversify and that we're going to be
speaking with Jeov coming up talking
about a diversification barrage and how
it's difficult to diversify in the same
kind of way and you have to really shift
in regions away from the United States
in part. How much are you doing that?
Are you saying look it is important to
diversify away from dollar denominated
assets just in order to benefit from
some of these potential uh developments?
Yeah, Lisa, I just came back from a long
uh trip out to Germany with with our my
PMs and analysts out there and um you
know, gosh, I the upside for European
economies next year is a little bit
better, but it's nothing like the US and
the Europeans don't have the big tech
leaders. They've kind of missed the AI
revolution. So, there's a lot of good
companies in Europe. You can make some
money there. They're a little bit
cheaper than the US companies, but we
already gave up a lot of that valuation
gap in that big move they had earlier in
the year. So, what we're doing is we're
kind of neutral in our balance
portfolios, EPHA, which technically
means Europe and Japan. We like Japan a
lot and actually we're we're heavy there
because there's a lot of real
restructuring going on in Japan. Japan's
early, but where we're really finding
value is more on the emerging market
side because that's the one place where
you can get value and you can get tech
because outside the US the only other
really region of the world that has big
is part of the big tech revolution if
you will is Asia, Taiwan, Korea, China.
So, you know, we think that is a way to
diversify but still stay in the channel
of AI. On the other side, we're still
overweight the US because it's this is
the leader of of this industrial
revolution. So, um we're not giving up
on the US as you know we have a target
8,600 two years out. So, you know, we we
and we think that'll be driven by
earnings.
>> Yeah. 2026, hold my beer. Welcome to
2027. Stephen A, the Federated Hermes.
Thank you so much for being with us.
Merry Christmas. Have a wonderful
holiday season. Really great to see you.
Coming. Coming up next, Elizabeth
Economy of the Hoover Institution on the
state of trade between the US and China.
Plus, Yahara Anand with your morning
movers. Frontier Airlines takes off on
renewed Spirit merger talks. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
All right, let's try this meltup thing
again. The Santa Claus rally. Right now
we are seeing futures higher at least
for the moment uh led by NASDAQ led by
the tech space. You're seeing a 4/10en
of a percent gain there. S&P futures up
by about a third of a percent. Russell
2000 flagging. Is this the beginning of
maybe the end of the very brief rotation
trade. I understand maybe I'm making a
mountain of molehill but it is the last
full trading week of uh 2025. When you
take a look at twos 10s and 30s a bid
into bonds yesterday as the final
interpretation was bearish for the labor
market report. Maybe the suggestion that
it did open the door to a Fed that could
cut rates sooner because of the
unexpected jump in the unemployment
rate. Today, we take it all back because
of oil prices. 350 on the 2-year, up
about two basis points. A similar move
on the 10-year, 4.17%. And that 30-year
yield still hovering around 4.85%. We
mentioned the crude levels getting down
to the lowest going back to February of
2021 to yesterday. Today, we reverse
that. Take that back with both Brent and
WTI traded on the NAX up more than 2%.
The Y comes from Venezuela. We will get
to that story in just one second. A
question of how much uh some sort of
intervention by the US in Venezuelan oil
trade could end up being pretty
transformative. 3 hours away from the
cash open. Here are your morning movers.
Jihara and Jira.
>> Hi Lisa. We start with Netflix. That
stock is up 1.6% 6% as Warner Brothers
Discovery gears up to reject Paramount
Sky Dance's takeover bid. That's
according to sources. According to the
board, the deal with Netflix just makes
more sense. It has more certainty. While
Paramount Sky Dance's bid is raising red
flags over its financing and adding to
the drama, Jared Kushner's Affinity
Partners has pulled out of Paramount's
bid, just marking another blow to that
effort. Meanwhile, we move on to Amazon.
Those shares also rising in the
pre-market, up 1.7%.
On our reporting, the tech giant is in
talks to invest at least $10 billion in
Open AI in a deal that could see the
chat beyaker using Amazon's chips, an
area that Amazon has been looking to
strengthen. It's also a big win for its
cloud division, specifically when it
comes to AI computing. And we end on the
airlines with some potential
consolidation. Frontier Group up nearly
9% now in the pre-market. Honor
reporting that the airline is back in
merger talks with Spirit highlighting
how all the other carriers are feeling
the pressure to grow in order to keep up
with the big three. And if the deal goes
through, it could help ease Spirit's
financial struggles, which has gone
bankrupt twice in less than one year.
And it could create the biggest uh the
fifth biggest airline in the US. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yahara, more on
airlines in just a bit. On our radar
this morning, President Donald Trump
ordering a blockade of all sanctioned
oil tankers entering or leaving
Venezuela, labeling the Madora regime a
quote foreign terrorist organization.
The president threatening the Armada
will only keep growing. Sometimes you
get lucky. Damian Sassar focuses on this
part of the world. And on a broader
level, I'm curious from your reporting,
from your uh investigations, how much
the Venezuelan instability has really
been a uh noose around the neck of a lot
of local economies.
>> Well, I mean, I think you have to look
at each economy differently, right? I
mean, the migration issues and how that
impacts Colombia, right? I mean,
Colombia probably isn't too happy about,
you know, what Trump is doing in its
backyard just next door over the border
in Venezuela. But Brazil, French Gana, a
lot of the offshore drillers are quite
pleased by the actions that the US is
taking here to defend their interests.
And so, you know, a lot of this started
and a lot of Venezuela's saber rattling
kind of ratcheted up after, you know,
Venezuela threatened the French Gana,
you know, kind of offshore drilling
platforms. And so, a lot of this is kind
of coming through to roost. If you look
at Petro Brass, uh, PEMX, some of the
big oil producers, APFA out of Argentina
in in, uh, in Latin America, they've all
done rather well and their bonds are
actually priced really, really
attractively at current levels. So,
yeah, as an EM investor, those are
places that people are starting to look
at again.
>> Yeah, and we just heard that from Steven
O in terms of how this potentially has
more upside than downside going forward.
Of course, there are legal potentials
here as well and the potential
ramifications for other areas that could
be saying, "Okay, how is the US going to
be involved with us?" I mean, how much
is that affecting local elections as
well as just general sentiment in the
region,
>> conflict in Western Africa, protests in
the Philippines, I mean, it's it's
everywhere, right? I mean, look at
Australia. But, you know, I think what
this points to for me is the central
bank divergence you're seeing. I mean,
we just saw that data overnight from the
UK, inflation coming in. You know, the
BOA BOE is going to cut tomorrow. We're
seeing Mexico this afternoon. They're
probably going to cut. We saw Thailand.
We saw um uh who else cut this week? A
few others. Oh, Chile. I mean, so, you
know, there's this divergence, but I
think by and large, the Fed is leading
the way. And it's a lot a lot of doubish
rhetoric out there.
>> Yeah. Elsewhere, uh in global stories,
the US preparing a fresh wave of
sanctions on Russia's energy sector
should President Putin reject a peace
deal with Ukraine. Sources telling us
here at Bloomberg, the new measures
could target Russia's shadow fleet of
tankers and could be unveiled this week.
It is a benefit that oil prices are
coming off such a low place. Doesn't
seem to be a lot of concern right now
baked into the oil market based in all
of this rhetoric.
>> No, not at all. And I think look again
this comes back to much of what we were
talking about yesterday, just that the
territorial rights. Where do we go with
Ukraine? You know, I mean, what what
comes next? And you know, I think that's
really the question that investors are
asking here.
>> What comes next is an address from
President Donald Trump. He is set to
address the nation from the White House
tonight at 9:00 p.m. Eastern. Press
Secretary Carolyn Levit saying the
president will highlight the year's
accomplishments and preview his policy
agenda for the year ahead. So, watch
this space. One thing that has been
really strong this year has been
discussions around trade. The White
House keeping on the pressure uh on
China. Treasury Secretary Scott Besson
telling media the country's $1 trillion
trade surplus is unsustainable. Joining
us now is Elizabeth Economy, senior
fellow at the Hoover Institution and one
of the stalwart experts and scholars of
the Chinese economy. Uh Elizabeth, thank
you so much for being with us. I want to
start with your take on the trade war so
far this year. Is there a clear winner?
Has there been any progress? Has it
reshaped the relationship between the US
and China?
>> I'm sure lot lots of questions wrapped
up into that. Um you know, look, I think
the good news is um the Busousan summit
between President Xi and Trump really
did uh establish a new equilibrium uh
between the two countries. it really,
you know, we took back um some of the
moves we'd made on export controls both
sides. That was really important
especially for the United States because
of China's hold on the you know critical
minerals and rare earth elements. Uh we
took back the shipping import dock fees
uh you know so and we took off 10% off
the tariffs um that we had on China you
know so from 57 down to 47%. So I think
a new equilibrium, but that's not to say
that there aren't going to be
perturbations to the system. Um and
we've already seen uh just over the past
week with the announcement um out of the
state department of PACIA uh this you
know new arrangement between the United
States and eight other countries uh to
try to develop really a trusted supply
chain uh from you know AI for the AI
semiconductor supply chain all the way
from you know investments in Australia
in rare earth elements and critical
minerals all the way through the UAE uh
with you know providing financing and
then of Taiwan is a special partner to
the group uh because of course you know
90% of the or more of this advanced
semiconductors that certainly the US
relies on come from Taiwan. So you know
we took that action and then the Chinese
you know put back on some export
controls around gallium and germanmanium
and graphite and put some companies that
are involved in this new pack silica on
their unreliable entities list. And so
you know they're going to be these kind
of tit fortat moves. Clearly uh you know
the administration is not stopping in
terms of what it wants to see uh in the
tech competition space. It's going to do
what it wants to do and China is going
to respond in kind. Um you know
hopefully we don't go into a freef fall.
We don't end up back at the you know 150
175% tariff level. Um but uh I don't
think it's going to be smooth sailing.
>> There has been this bigger question
about which economy is stronger and
better to withstand some of this
volatility. Over the past couple of
days, we've gotten data out of China
signifying that there has been an
ongoing decline, weakening in consumer
appetite, this concern about prices that
are falling too rapidly. Do you think
that this is laying the groundwork for
some sort of stimulus to support the
economy during this prolonged tip
fortat?
>> I mean, look, the Chinese, you know,
playbook is basically, you know, more
investment. Um and you know over the
past couple of years that investment has
moved away from the property sector
which has been in a prolonged slump to
the tech sector you know clean tech
legacy semiconductors the whole array of
made in China 2025 uh technologies uh
you know where China wants to dominate
Chinese companies to dominate at home
and then become global champions. So
that includes new materials and EVs and
AI all these you know important cutting
edge technologies that is the playbook
and that is what they've been doing. Um,
but I think that's running its course
and local governments have, you know,
been building up their, you know, debt.
The property sector is still slumping.
There's no consumer confidence. The
country's done very little to reshape
the social welfare net to make people
feel confident. Uh, right, that they're
not going to have to spend their savings
on some healthcare emergency or on their
children's education. Um, so the pension
system is, you know, basically broken in
in about a third of the provinces. So
they have to do more uh to boost
consumer confidence. They've been
reluctant to do that. Uh and people are
not and that's why they're not buying.
And you know as as an aside uh you know
also the birth rate continues to fall
and birth rate tracks with consumer
confidence. So if they want to begin to
address their demographic challenges
which are also enormous, they need to do
more uh to address their consumer
confidence.
>> That's right, Elizabeth. Demographic
challenges. its real estate crisis is
entering its fifth year in a row. Yet
insiders are calling for a stronger yuan
despite the fact that it's an export-led
economy. I mean, I think exports rose
above $1 trillion for the first time on
record last month. Talk to us about, you
know, why are insiders why is China
looking for the yuan to appreciate in
2026?
>> Well, I think it reflects a policy
debate within China and, you know, a
stronger yan would encourage, you know,
consumers to buy more. It would give
China greater credibility on the
international stage in terms of um you
know saying that its currency should be
the you know should become a real
reserve currency in the future as it
pushes to ddollarize the global economy.
uh and it would relieve some of the
pressure that it's beginning to face
from the international community now in
terms of all those exports right because
it's not just the United States uh that
is calling out China for uh its you know
export of its over capacity and all
those you know EVs and batteries etc.
It's now it's Europe it's Mexico for
example that's threatening I think 50%
tariffs on on Chinese goods. So I think
China has uh a problem again not only
with the United States and some of the
advanced economies but also with middle
inome and increasingly emerging
economies that are seeing you know their
markets flooded with these Chinese goods
and their nent industries are never
going to be never going to have a chance
to compete. So I think that would be
those would be some of the reasons that
the Chinese government might make a move
toward appreciating the yan.
>> Yeah I mean Elizabeth Chinese equities
are up I think 1.82% overnight following
that successful IPO of MetaX. I think
the uh Chinese equity market's up 16 17%
year to date. Talk to us about foreign
interest in Chinese equities. I mean for
me I mean I look at the variable
interest entity structure as a put off,
right? I mean you don't own anything
really. You're owning a hold co and the
Caymans. You're not really owning an
OPCO. Talk to us about how an an
investor a foreign investor here in the
US can get comfortable owning Chinese
shares.
>> Okay. So you're pushing me past what I
you know actually focus on. So I don't I
don't want to be giving investment
advice to people. Um let me let me just
say I think you know the Chinese stock
stock market you know has been compared
to a casino uh you know and gambling by
uh you know some of China's most
prominent economists. So you know I
would always just say buy or beware. Um
uh but you know I am not in a position
to be giving advice in this space.
>> You are in a position to be giving
advice to policy makers who'll be
listening closely. Elizabeth Economy of
the Hoover Institution. Thank you so
much for being with us. This is one of
the key stories uh that we've been
focusing on just how intertwined are
these economies and who is going to win
ultimately at a time when investors
aren't sure yet. They're both voting
with their feet on both fronts.
>> Well, affordability issues in China. I
mean, the real estate crisis, its fifth
year in a row. China Vanc stateowned
developer is probably going to default
this week. I mean, it's just things are
a mess domestically and the fact that
they're going to make exports that much
more competitive by trying to appreciate
the yuan just doesn't make much sense to
me.
>> If you want some clarity, we can check
out the economy in the United States
maybe. We're going to discuss that
coming up. Right now, let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your bloom brief with
Yahara on. Hi, Lisa. UK inflation
slipped to its lowest level in 8 months
with consumer prices rising 3.2% in
November. The drop was driven by falling
prices of some foods. The data raising
bets the Bank of England will cut
interest rates at tomorrow's decision.
Meanwhile, the suspect of the mass
shooting at Australia's Bondi Beach has
been charged with 59 offenses, including
15 counts of murder and one count of
terrorism. 24year-old suspect Navidid
Akram was given his first hearing at his
hospital bedside. 15 people were killed
in the attack at the Jewish celebration
of Hanukkah with one victim remaining in
critical condition.
And President Trump reportedly plans to
interview Fed Governor Christopher
Waller today as a replacement for Fed
Chair Jay Powell. According to the Wall
Street Journal, the process is
fastmoving and meetings may be postponed
or cancelled. Trump interviewed former
Fed Governor Kevin Walsh last week and
he and National Economic Council
Director Kevin Hasset are considered the
front runners. That's your Bloomberg
brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. You a fastmoving
process since what, September?
>> Two Kevin and a Chris.
>> Yeah, I mean this is where we are. Up
next, mixed signals in the data.
>> Are you not worried then about the
>> Oh, I think it should come down. Be very
unusual for job growth not to keep up
with GDP in the long run once we see the
revisions.
>> Veronica Clark of Croup joins next from
New York. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance. Good morning.
Right now, we're looking at a market
that is seeing slight gains ahead of the
open led by the big tech space.
Interestingly, especially given some of
the skepticism about circular financing,
vendor financing. We'll get to the
latest deal between OpenAI and Amazon
that is being speculated on in a second.
NASDAQ futures up 4/10en of a percent.
S&P futures up a third of a percent and
Russell 2000 lagging behind. It had been
leading. Now we're up about a quarter of
a percent. When you take a look at the
bond space, any message from the labor
market that was anything other than uh
positive sanguin on the US economy has
uh been shaken off and right now you are
seeing yields inlecting higher. Perhaps
this is due to what we're seeing in the
crude space. But the 30-year yields
4.85%.
It has been around this level up almost
four basis point on the front end even
up two basis points back to uh close to
that 351 mark. A question of how do you
interpret a labor market that does seem
to be increasing participation but where
the unemployment rate is increasing
under surveillance this morning mixed
signals in the data.
>> How concerned are you the unemployment
rate keeps rising?
>> We saw an uptick in the unemployment
rate but we also saw a uptick uh a few
months in a row of labor force
participation. So I think those
government workers are out there looking
for jobs and there's an academic
literature that suggests that they'll be
very successful at it because government
workers tend to be very wellqualified
when they hit the private sector.
>> You not worried then about the
>> Oh, I think it should come down be very
unusual for job growth not to keep up
with GDP in the long run once we see the
revisions.
>> Here's the latest traders looking ahead
to tomorrow's CPI inflation print
following the unemployment rate rising
to a 4-year high in November. Uh,
Veronica Clark of Cityroup writing, "The
weakening labor market and easing
inflationary pressures will lead Fed
officials to cut rates in January and
March next year with the risk of more
cuts." Veronica joins us now and I
should say it is a fired up Veronica
Clark from Cityroup impassioned as we
talk about yesterday's labor market
report. We had on Stephen O earlier
saying that look, it shows a positive uh
sign you are seeing markets shake off
the chance of a Fed rate cut in January.
You vehemently disagree. Why?
>> Yeah. Yeah, I absolutely do. I think the
Fed is going to take that increase in
the unemployment rate much more
seriously than bond markets seem to be
right now. Um it does look like a very
consistent increase in the unemployment
rate now. The last four, you know, 5
months or so, um we already know that
4.4% that was the number we had before
last week's meeting is not low anymore.
4.6% is certainly not going to be low
either.
>> Some people say the reason why the
unemployment rate went up was simply
because more people are participating in
the labor market, which is a positive
thing. You want to bring people into the
labor market. Why do you wholeheartedly
reject what Kevin Hasset was saying,
which is a lot of this has to do with
government workers going to look for
work in the private sector and they will
find it?
>> Yeah, we we did see the larger
government layoffs. That was the people
who took those buyout offers. Um they
dropped off of payrolls this this month.
Um but that is still people who are
entering a very low hiring labor market
and are not finding work who were who
were getting pay. It is true that the
unemployment rate rose alongside the
participation rate rising, but there
were a couple things that happened back
in the spring. Um, we saw this really
large increase in the level of
continuing jobless claims. We saw job
growth slowing substantially in May and
the unemployment rate never rose because
the participation rate fell
substantially then. Um, there has been
this really big seasonal trend in all of
this data. That applies to the
participation rate also and we're kind
of just coming up to where we should
have been all along.
>> Veronica, talk to me about the
dispersion of job growth in the US. To
me, I look at private uh private job
growth. I'm just seeing, you know,
private education and healthcare and
little else other than that, you know.
Talk to us. Is that right? I mean, talk
to us about like what is in store for
the US economy if those are the only
segments of the market that are growing
here.
>> Right. Right. It was an interesting
report in that Yeah, we we certainly see
that consistent strength in health and
education. That's been the case for a
while now. Um it is a really precarious
place to be. You don't want all of you
know hiring, all of growth to come from
just one sector. Um there was some
strength in construction which maybe
that has to do with also these seasonal
adjustment issues. If anything, you
know, housing construction has been
falling for about two years now. You
would think that there's downside risk
there. And yeah, if job growth is just
increasingly an area, that's not a very
comfortable place to be.
>> Well, let's take this through the FOMC,
right? The dispersion in the dot plot.
You've mentioned that in your work
previously. Um, you know, do you expect
that to persist into the new year? Do
you expect that Fed uh FOMC members are
going to generate more cohesion around
the data? They're going to come to terms
with where we are as an economy?
>> Yeah, I think over time we will. Um
there's certainly that disagreement
still. Um we will in a couple weeks,
we're back on schedule. We'll get the
December employment report before that
January FOMC meeting. Um I do think the
unemployment rate will rise again in
that reading 4.7%. Maybe people take
that a bit more seriously. It shouldn't
have maybe measurement issues related to
the lack of of data collections. Um it's
going to take more months of data on the
inflation side. I think unfortunately um
to convince the Fed hawks that you
shouldn't be as concerned. Um, but I
think they'll have that even maybe by
the March meeting. Um, I think we'll see
more slowing in services prices by then.
>> Are we overstating the Fed's role in
this at a time when we've seen the least
rate sensitive economy in a very long
time? One that's driven by artificial
intelligence and exogenous factors that
potentially are affecting the labor
market as much as anything else. How
much will an additional 25, 50, even 100
basis points of rate cuts actually do?
Yeah, it might not necessarily do a lot
because the cuts that we've seen so far
haven't prevented the weakening in the
labor market. But I I do worry um that
we're still in a really prolonged cycle.
And this is kind of how John Williams
was talking about it yesterday that
maybe this is still a rate sensitive
economy. It's just taking a lot longer
to be rate sensitive. We had so much
fiscal policy support the last couple
years. Um the slowing in the labor
market, you know, the pullback in hiring
really did start two years ago, 2023. I
don't know if that's going to be all AI
related. Um, it could be that rates are
restrictive.
>> If that's the case, why have long- end
yields risen? We saw 175 basis points of
rate cuts going back to September of
2024. 10year and 30-year yields are
higher today than they were then. We're
seeing the 2-year yields basically at
the same place. They haven't actually
been accommodative. So, right now, the
market is saying they're not buying it.
What's wrong with that?
>> Which is not a good sign if it is high
rates that are restricting activity
right now. You definitely have not
gotten that easing that the Fed maybe
would have wanted. Obviously, long end
yields are going to be a function of a
lot of other things. You know, we do run
very wide fiscal deficits now. Um, and
that's certainly part of it. You know,
maybe questions on stickiness to
inflation and and yeah, long run, I I
could imagine that, you know, we're not
necessarily going back to 2% inflation.
Exactly. We could be running a bit bit
higher than that. Um, but in the next
year or so, if the labor market is
weakening, I'm not particularly
concerned about those inflationary
pressures.
>> Veronica Clark, wonderful to see you.
Looking forward to the next time.
Veronica Clark of Cityroup. I mean to me
this is sort of the the conflict right
nobody's thinking that there's going to
be any sort of downturn any sort of
recession you're seeing that priced into
bonds you're seeing that priced into
stocks at the same time real weakness in
the labor market
>> you're talking about term premium Lisa
and you're right to be talking about
because what will it take for an
investor and institutional investors to
move out along the curve right I mean
this is something that in emerging
markets we talk about all the time most
emerging markets you go past the
two-year there's very little liquidity
in fives tens I mean there's no 30-year
in some of these markets but here in the
US the fact that we're dealing with this
and not just the US in all developed
markets that we're coping with this
steepening of the curve especially tens
30s it's a real issue
>> yeah although you I just hear Bob
Michael in my head saying there's so
much cash out there and at a certain
point people want to get more than 3% on
their cash holding
>> just caught in private credit which is
all short duration exactly they can't
get out
>> which is now $8 trillion in money market
funds we'll be talking about this what
does it mean to diversify coming up next
Jeanbo of black rockck the whole idea of
the diversification mirage Republican
congressman French Hill ahead of that
address from President Trump later this
evening. Congress as well as Sheila
Kyaloo of Jeffre as we talk about some
of the drama going on in the airline
space and Jill Carrie Hall of Bank of
America as Russell 2000 doesn't
necessarily have leadership today. It
has been gaining the leadership though
hinging on this bet of the US economy
and Fed rate cuts. How feasible is that
given some of the economic data that
we've seen so far? Right now in markets
you are seeing a lift that we've been
waiting for. three straight days of
losses and right now you are seeing
gains across the board led by big tech
people not concerned by circular
financing vendor financing bring it on
up almost a half a percent on NASDAQ
futures in the bond space a little bit
of a sell-off coming up we'll talk a
little bit about oil prices a little bit
about open AI and Amazon and a little
bit about CPI this is Bloomberg
surveillance good Okay.
>> Don't be shocked by these really low job
gains. I think they're just kind of
standard.
>> There are a lot of tailwinds supporting
the economy for next year. Yes,
inflation is high and it's persistent,
but it has been coming down.
>> It's a little too premature to think
that inflation is going to take care of
itself.
>> I'm more focused on CPI because of what
it will tell us as to where we're going
next.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Stocks inflecting higher
after three straight sessions of losses
as big tech reclaims leadership maybe
just briefly. The oil prices surging
from 2021 lows as President Trump orders
a blockade of sanctioned Venezuelan oil
tankers. And the tech moneyball keeps on
rolling with open AI and talks to raise
$10 billion from Amazon and use its
chips at a time when people are
wondering is this vendor financing or is
this something that just feels like big
tech players have to be financing
themselves?
>> Well, I look at the Open AI Disney deal,
right? I couldn't understand it at
first, but then if you realize what
they're really going after, they're
going after YouTube, Instagram, Tik Tok,
short form video content. So, and
they're not paying for it. So, it's just
interesting to see the approach that Sam
Alman and OpenAI are taking to this
market given the fact that it's tough to
make money.
>> We're showing this chart. If you can
read it, good luck. Honestly, it is very
confusing. It's a visual illustration of
exactly all of the connections between
Nvidia, OpenAI, and all of the other
tech players. The arrows going in all
directions. highlights just how circular
it is. Yeah. And it raises this issue
and this is the reason why people are
getting nervous. How much are some of
these companies becoming systemically
important, right? If OpenAI doesn't
deliver on promises that are pretty
extreme, how much does that threaten the
rest of the universe? There were
articles yesterday about how Oracle has
pledged more than $200 billion of lease
payments over the next 10 years, which
is an enormous sum. So, you put all this
together, this is the reason why there
have been these jitters. Lisa, it's very
reminiscent of the late '9s when we saw
JDSU and Lucent and Cisco and all these
I mean like oh sure we'll just pay for
you to buy our service. I mean it is
very reminiscent of that. So I
understand the fear in markets.
>> At the same time it does promise to be
revolutionary which is a reason why
people are betting on the gains and
betting on the efficiencies. Right now
what you are seeing in markets is that
positivity coming home and this idea
that maybe people see certain companies
as doing better as possibly profiting.
Amazon in particular with their latest
mason chip uh industry up four ten of a
percent in NASDAQ futures. S&P futures
up now about a similar amount. Russell
2000 lagging behind in the bond space. A
bit of a sell-off today on the heels of
oil. You are seeing this led by the
belly of the curve by 10ear yields as
well as 30-year yields up now about
three basis points in both teners. Even
two-year yields though rising about two
basis points and what you are seeing in
that crude space rising off the lowest
levels going back to February of 2021 up
now about 2% on both crude traded on the
NYX as well as Brent as we do look to
Venezuela. Coming up this hour do not
miss this. Jean of Black Rockck as
investors await a fresh read on
inflation. Republican Congressman French
Hill as a blocked healthc care vote
draws backlash from GOP moderates and
Gia Kaou of Jeffre amid renewed merger
talks between Spirit and Frontier
Airlines. We begin this hour stocks just
pushing uh a bit higher. John B of Black
Rockck warning of a diversification
mirage. I love that phrase. Writing the
importance of the AI theme illustrates
why a neutral portfolio allocation
doesn't exist when only a handful of
mega forces are driving returns. Jean
joins us now for more. Wonderful to see
you, Jean. Thank you so much for being
here.
>> Great to be here.
>> So, there is this idea that you can
diversify away from AI. You can
diversify away from the United States.
Why is this a mirage?
>> Well, I mean it's tempting. Uh and
diversification sounds like a good thing
to do, prudent and uh everything, but
like in a in an environment that is
driven by only a few a few mega forces.
Uh we think there are five AI, I won't
name them, demog demographics and so on.
I'm bored of mentioning them. Uh but AI
certainly being the the mega of the mega
forces right now uh you cannot really
have a neutral position uh you cannot um
you know uh be in a halfway house. So
either you are with the AI and you buy
the market or you go equally weighted uh
but you can see equally weighted
performance of the S&P over the last 18
months and you have massively
underperformed. So uh there's not really
like a a halfway house and neutral
positions. Same thing with uh US market
versus Europe. Earlier this year, it was
a attemp, you know, appealing to say,
well, a lot of uncertainty in the US.
I'm gonna try to be prudent and
diversify away. That's an active bet
against the US. It might be the right
bet. Uh, but you have to do it with
conviction. Well, just to take a step
back and to push back a little bit, you
could say just to be extreme about this
that even equal weight is equally
leveraged to the AI trade because right
now a lot of people are benefiting that
productivity gains in the rest of the
493 will actually be driven by AI
adoption and that will lead if you do
have conviction about this AI trade. So
at what point is that actually the
diversification away from this big AI
mega theme?
>> I don't think you're pushing back. I
think you're amplifying my point which
is exactly right. I think this is uh
there's no real place to hide. Uh this
is the the mega force driving
everything. If it were to uh you know
not pan out to the expectation uh there
would be u you know you need a total
plan B. Uh it's a different portfolio
you need in this environment. So um it's
not really about hoping you can have
passive diversification. I think this is
an active management of the environment.
>> Jean, yesterday we had a lovely
conversation with your colleague Mike
Pile and he was saying exactly the same
thing. diversification, diversification,
diversification, but active
diversification. He mentioned hedge
funds and you know my question for you
is the similar question I had for him.
Investing in hedge funds isn't easy,
right? I mean, you're talking about
lockups, gates, liquidity, you know, so
talk to us a little bit about your
approach, how you're advising Black
Rockck's clients to invest in the
alternative asset space.
>> So, I guess the general point is this
environment as we were just saying like
requires u you know, you cannot hope to
have a passive exposure that's going to
deliver as much. need to be more active
that can be more nimble in the way you
think about your asset allocation that's
the first that's a starting point
reassessing your long-term expectations
more rapidly that's another but it is an
environment that we've seen actually uh
because of it's shaped by structural
adjustment where uh I think uh hedge
fund types long short type strategies
and solution have more scope to perform
uh and actually we've we've documented
that you can see that since uh 2020 that
period compared to the previous decade
uh the top quartile uh hedge fund
managers in the macro space have been
able to generate like 5 percentage point
more than they were able to. Uh the
prior environment was one that was muted
by central banks and you know they were
able to kind of smooth the environment.
We don't think that's true anymore and
as a result these strategies uh have
more room to more scope to to deliver
but yeah they come uh it's an active
decision uh you need to pick the right
manager uh the skills matter and it
comes with uh you know liquidity that
needs to be managed and so on you know
we keep talking about these mega forces
right I mean that's a big thing for
black rockck the fact that equity market
or for that matter uh financial market
performance is really tied to one factor
really and in this case AI so I want to
ask you about this AI tech spending
capex plans for 2026 Do you think it has
the potential to crowd out spending from
other sectors of the economy?
>> So we think that the uh the buildout
that is actually happening uh is
unprecedented, right? So by 2030 we're
talking about 5 to8 trillion that is
taken seriously by the industry. If you
take that seriously uh that would make
it the fastest buildout of of of capex
ever, but not like in the last couple of
years like ever. Uh so you have to ask a
question how's this going to be get
absorbed? uh we think that the nonAI
part of the economy will have to slow
down uh maybe by one percentage point to
absorb this and it's going to be
combined with uh we think eventually
more inflation uh it's significant
inflation it's 1.5 percentage point on
top of current inflation that if it does
play out so I don't think it's going to
actually get to that level that is
anticipated now I don't I think the
ambitions will be recalibrated and
particularly because energy energy is
going to be a real real concerning
factor so it's going to be it's not on
autopilot so I think that the the last
thing I would say is you know, a lot of
ambition, but I I don't think we're
going to see an autopilot just building
building. There's going to be
readjustment and that's why we remain
bullish because um you know, there's
still room to adjust quite a bit. We're
only one mill one trillion into the 5
to8 trillion at this stage. Sure.
>> What would be a re big red flag? What
would be a warning sign to you to maybe
shift conviction?
>> So, the main thing is uh this is a story
about the world leveraging up. Uh you've
talked about the financing a minute ago.
Uh it's it's actually a feature of this
environment. I I mean before we see that
as a red flag I think we need technology
micro is macro. So uh AI is so big the
financing will be big and you could in
any environment there's going to be
connection like we're we're looking at.
So leveraging up is going to be one
feature of this environment and the big
red flag is uh it's going to work as
long as interest rates and long-term
interest rate don't uh increase very
abruptly and significantly. So uh big
red flag for us in 2026 is the interplay
between AI and the rate space. Um, and
for now, we think the Fed's going to
ease further. We might get lucky. Uh, so
in 2026, we're bullish going into 26,
but it's going to be the risk that we're
going to be managing.
>> Just watching those long end yields in
particular, there is this feeling that
because of the new tech advancements,
there will have to be consolidation,
that being bigger is better in order to
spend on some of these efficiencies,
etc. A lot of merger and acquisition
news just crossing. Warner Brothers
saying that they do oppose the deal
coming from Paramount, saying that they
do recommend the Netflix deal, saying
that they have family, the Ellison
family has not chosen to backs stop the
uh Paramount Sky Dance uh deal, which
actually is a pretty big deal. Also with
the idea that you are seeing the first
son pull back from this deal. Jared
Kushner and his fund also pulling out.
Warner Brothers deeming the Paramount
offer inferior and inadequate, saying
that there is no difference in
regulatory risk between the two. You are
seeing Netflix shares up about 1.6%. I'm
not going to ask you to comment on this,
John. I know you're not going to, but
there is this feeling that mergers and
acquisitions has begun to really ramp up
and it will continue to next year. How
do you work with that as an investor
actively positioning for the upside for
something that seems almost an
inevitability if rates remain with AR?
Yeah, I think that the general uh story
here is that uh you know you can spend a
lot of time on the macro trying to see
taking AI as we talked about like
whether the the spent will eventually be
matched by equivalent revenues and so
on. But I think the bigger story is that
this is an environment where uh we don't
know who's going to be the winner. Uh
there's a lot of new pool of revenues
that will be generated. uh it's not a
story simply I think just of
extrapolating 10 years of tech expanding
and tech going uh into like uh you know
entertainment and uh I think this is
more complicated and we're going to get
to a point where the value chain will be
across sectors like think about medical
new new medical procedure and that's
going to be about like big uh
pharmaceutical companies and big tech
working together on a value chain who's
going to actually extract the the the
rent from this is on is unclear and and
that's going to might create actually
mergers uh situation as well. So, I
think this is an active space where as
we learn about the new revenue pools and
who has the market power, we're going to
see uh active opportunities.
>> Just real quick, what's the 10-year
yield that puts the halt the kibos on
all of this activity?
>> Uh well, there's no single number,
right? So, sorry I'm boring, but like
it's going to be about how much growth
you get together with that 10-year
yield. Uh but I think, you know, we
expect rates 10 year to be more closer
closer to five than four. Uh I think the
world is more in line with this with the
debt uh side of things and then just the
compensation that investors I think want
to have for the duration risk. Uh so I
think it's more of a closer to five than
four over the next few years. If we were
to break out of this we would have to go
back to the drawing board and reassess.
So um that gives you a bit of a sense.
>> Jeov, thank you so much for being with
us. Jeanov of Black Rockck here with us
in New York. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning. Here is
your Bloommer brief with Yhira and
Jihira.
>> Hi Lisa. As you were discussing, Warner
Brothers Discovery is advising its
shareholders to reject a hostile
takeover bid by Paramount Skyance in
favor of its original agreement with
Netflix. Warner Brothers board is
deeming the Paramount offer inferior and
inadequate and that the terms of the
Netflix merger are superior.
Meanwhile, President Trump ordered a
blockade of sanctioned oil tankers going
into and leaving Venezuela. In a post on
Truth Social, he said the blockade will
only get bigger and designated the
Maduro regime as a foreign terrorist
organization. The developments have led
to a climb in oil prices after they
touch nearly 5year lows. And SpaceX has
told its employees the company is
entering a regulatory quiet period as it
prepares for potential IPO in 2026.
sources telling us here at Bloomberg,
employees have been asked to refrain
from commenting on, discussing, or
otherwise pumping up the company's plans
for its public offering in accordance
with SEC rules. That's your Bloomberg
brief. Lisa, thank you so much, Yahara.
Up next, failing to find a healthcare
solution.
>> We worked on it all the way through the
weekend, in fact. Um, and uh and in the
end, there was not an agreement wasn't
made.
>> And pissed for the American people. This
is absolute bull.
>> Republican Congressman French Hill joins
us next from New York. This is Bloomberg
surveillance.
We're going to try the rally thing one
more time. The Santa Claus rally. Right
now you are seeing a lift to markets.
Three straight trading sessions of
declines. Now we are up almost 4/10en of
a percent on S&P futures. A little bit
of dollar strength reasserting itself.
117 uh 11716 on the Euro dollar cross.
10ear yields up by three basis points
right now. Almost near that 418 mark.
We've been pretty much hovering around
that level for a while. And crude up
2.2% 2% on the backs of uh the plans of
the United States to create a blockade
around section sanctioned Venezuelan oil
tankers. More on that coming up in a
bit. Now, the focus turns to Washington
DC as lawmakers try to avoid another
government shutdown in January under
surveillance this morning, failing to
find a healthcare solution.
>> We looked for a way to try to allow for
that uh pressure release valve and it
just was not to be. We worked on it all
the way through the weekend, in fact. Um
and uh and in the end that there was not
an agreement wasn't made.
>> I am pissed for the American people.
This is absolute and it's
absurd. 3/4 of people on Obamacare are
in states Donald Trump won. So maybe,
just maybe, everybody should look at
this and say, "How do we actually fix
the health care system?"
>> Here's the latest. House Speaker Mike
Johnson blocking the vote to extend
health insurance subsidies that are set
to lapse on New Year's Eve, all but
guaranteeing higher premiums for
millions of Americans. Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall joins us now from Washington.
Tyler, it does seem like these premiums
will be uh made obsolete in the next few
weeks. Now, it goes to the question of a
government shutdown in January.
>> Right. Exactly, Lisa. There's a lot on
the table. I believe we're now about 5
weeks away from that January 31st
deadline when government funding could
run out again. And it's probably an
understatement to say, as you just
heard, that tensions have been rising
between House Republican leadership and
moderates who are saying that they want
to see something done when it comes to
these expiring Obamacare premium tax
subsidies. An analysis cited by
Bloomberg News estimates that more than
20 million Americans could see their
premium spike in the new year. That set
a few different policy options on the
table. One, moderates, including Mike
Lawler, who you just heard from, now
have to decide if they want to sign on
to what's known as a discharge petition,
which could force a vote on extending
for three years those premium tax
subsidies that has the support of
Democrats. But the reality is none of
this is expected to get done before
Congress adjourns for the new year. So,
at this point, we haven't even spoken
about how the Senate also needs to
tackle this issue. So potentially we
could see some sort of healthc care
agreement be tacked on to that
government funding bill. But at this
point both sides of the aisle and both
chambers need to work out their
differences. Lisa, of course, as you all
know, the backdrop is that affordability
has really put Republicans on defense
after a slew of election losses last
month and we know that the White House
and Republicans in Congress are trying
to calibrate their message as we head
into the midterms.
>> Tyler Kendall, thank you so much for
that. Joining us now for more, I'm so
pleased to say, is Republican
Congressman French Hill of Arkansas.
Congressman, thank you so much for being
with us. I want to start with this
disagreement in Congress about even
being able to vote on these subsidies.
Have you ever seen Congress, Republicans
in general more divided over this issue
than they are right now?
>> Well, Lisa, it's good to be with you.
Merry Christmas. Happy Hanukkah to all
your viewers and everybody at Bloomberg.
Well, first, let's be clear. The tax uh
uh credits for Obamacare policies are
not expiring. The ones that were
expanded by Joe Biden during the CO 19
pandemic are expiring, but that base tax
credit that dates back to the beginning
of Obamacare for moderate income
families with children is still in
place. So, let's be clear about that.
And I'm not sure I agree with the
estimate that was cited. What
Republicans are trying to do are side
with American families across the board
and lower premiums across the board. And
we consistently brought bills to the
House floor to do that. And we've had
Democrats reject them. Last week, the
Senate could not find a consensus on
this. And that's the definitive place.
That was the commitment made during the
the spending vote. So, I think
everybody, Democrats, independents, and
Republicans, all are suffering from the
cost of living uh burden brought to us
by the 9% inflation from the Biden
administration. That's coming down, but
there's much more work to do. And that
includes on passing bills that will
actually lower premiums for all
Americans across the board. Congressman
Hill, I'm wondering if you could talk to
us a little bit about the Housing for
21st century act, the act that's
expected to streamline housing
development, provide incentives for
builders, just exactly what is the act
and how is it going to alleviate the
lack of supply in the US housing market?
>> You bet. Thanks, Damon. It's such a big
issue. We have so many people in so many
markets that have experienced a runup in
house prices uh during the past 5 years
and certainly a runup in mortgage rates
due to the Fed fighting the Biden
inflation from 21 and 22 and that's
really caused a lot of people to not
have access to the house that they want.
So what we're doing today is we're
marking up bills that will reduce
regulatory cost of building new houses,
improve zoning to encourage uh better
density, more uh different kinds of
units across uh uh different cities in
the US. We're talking about improving
opportunities for rural housing
development, make it easier for a
veteran to get a veterans loan, and hold
HUD accountable on what I think is a
deplorable job that they've done over
the past decade or so in managing public
housing for our neediest citizens across
the country who I think have poor many
poor conditions and HUD is not holding
either private landlords or their own
housing authorities accountable.
Congressman Hill, US housing
affordability, as we know, is at an
all-time low. I'm wondering what is the
act or the bill, the proposal. Uh how
does it address homeowner expenses,
utilities, uh insurance? I mean, we know
that, you know, OPEX has really risen um
on over the past few years. Does it do
anything to alleviate the stress on home
owners?
Well, on homeowners, uh, again, 80% of
the cost that goes into a house are
local zoning, local code decisions,
local development fees that are charged
on building new houses. If you want to
bring down the cost of the mortgage or
the cost of property and casualty
insurance, you need to confront
inflation, which is why I believe the
Fed's primary focus is price stability.
And we've made progress from the 9% we
experienced under Joe Biden's fiscal
mismanagement and the Fed's
mismanagement coming out of the
pandemic. And there's a sustained uh
pressure there to bring down uh costs
and that will in turn bring down
property and casualty insuranceances.
That will bring down the cost of
financing. This is a prime goal for the
administration. But what this bill
focuses on is lowering the cost to
manage housing, lower the cost to uh
build housing. And that's something that
I think will increase supply and
increase supply will lower prices. We've
already seen a modest break in that
5-year high in price appreciation. About
11 of the 20 top 25 markets are seeing
some easing off on pricing.
>> Congressman, uh, one thing that we keep
talking about is the affordability
crisis and you've talked about President
Biden several times. At what point do
you think that President Trump needs to
also though take some responsibility for
the idea that inflation still is above
its 2% target? He's talking about
keeping rates even lower. At the same
time uh that he's been talking about the
affordability crisis is a hoax.
>> Well, look, the affordability crisis is
not a hoax. I mean, we see it in the
grocery store when we shop. We've seen
it in the price level that increased as
a result, as I said, of the Biden
inflation. that will come down over
time. There's work to be done. I think
the president's put his attention on
doing that by lowering long-term energy
prices by increasing, we're going to
vote this week to increase permitting on
federal lands, which will open up future
development for oil and gas production.
That's good. Encouraging production
across the country will bring down gas
prices over the next few years. And
petroleum goes into everything that we
make. So that will help bring down
prices as well as some of the things
we're tackling on deregulation and
financing. I've worked hard in my
committee to bring down the cost of
financing by making our banks of all
sizes more competitive to have more
capital to lend to people who are
building houses or wanting to uh have a
mortgage on their first house.
Congressman, just about a minute left,
but how much will further Fed rate cuts
actually help with the affordability
crisis if price stability is, you said
is their preeminent mandate?
>> Well, look, this is why the Fed has a
tough job to determine what the right
price level is, what the right level of
ample reserves are. Uh, and prices have
been coming down. They just have gotten
sticky right above the Fed's target. So,
I just simply say that the biggest tax
on the American people is inflation. And
we've witnessed a 40-year high of it due
to the mistakes made by the Fed coming
out of the pandemic and Joe Biden's
decision to spend $6 trillion more
borrowed in the markets that I think was
not the right decision to take. And we
got inflation as a result of too many
dollars chasing too few goods for those
two years. But it's coming down. The
Fed's been focused on that and they'll
have to make the right decisions about
the level of short-term rates. What I
think people care about is that 10-year
rate uh because so much of our mortgage
industry is tied to that and it's why we
have to do something about lowering our
deficit because the deficit is what puts
that 10-year uh re uh rate level at
risk.
>> Republican Congressman French Hill,
thank you so much for taking the time.
Always love getting your thoughts uh as
we look to the year ahead. Coming up
next, Sheila Kayallu of Jeffrey's Spirit
Airlines renews merger talks with
Frontier. Plus, Yhara with your morning
movers. Warner Brothers Discovery urging
investors to reject a hostile takeover
bid by Paramount Skyance.
Seeing gains to start this Wednesday
morning after the jobs report yesterday.
I'm not going to ever get used to
non-farm payrolls Tuesday, but there we
were. Right now you are seeing that
bleed upward after three straight days
of losses. It's being led by the tech
sector reprising its number one position
up 4/10en of a percent on NASDAQ
futures. Russell 2000 up a third of a
percent. If you take a look at twos,
tens and 30s, you do see that selloff in
the bond space. Yields higher on the
heels of higher oil prices led by the
long end of the yield curve. 30-year
yields back up toward that 4.85%
4.84% this morning up three basis
points. a similar move on 10-year yields
on 2-year yields also inflected higher
by two basis points to 350 with this
idea that the Fed may not have to cut
even though there still is a lot of
disagreement about just how weak the US
labor market is and the crude space
really is sucking the oxygen out of the
bond world this morning you are seeing y
uh bond you're seeing oil prices up 2%
uh after reaching the lowest levels
since 2021 on concerns about the US
possibly blocking Venezuelan sanctioned
oil tankers and what that means for
supply. Two hours away from the cash
open. Here are your morning movers with
Yhierra Anna and Jihara.
>> Hi Lisa. It is confirmed Warner Brothers
Discovery has come out urging investors
to reject Paramount Sky Dance's takeover
deal, calling it inferior and risky
compared to its original deal with
Netflix, which it says offers more
value. Though that deal faces its own
risks because combining Netflix and
Warner Brothers Discovery will create a
streaming behemoth which will lead to
regulatory challenges. And looking at
the trade, we are seeing Warner Brothers
Discovery and Paramount weaker while
Netflix is up 1 and a4%. Meanwhile,
moving on to Amazon, those shares are up
1.3% outperforming the Mag 7. Honor
reporting that it is in a talks to
invest at least one10 billion dollars in
open AI in a deal that could see the
Chad GPT maker using Amazon's chips an
area that Amazon has been looking to
strengthen. It could also be a win for
its cloud business specifically when it
comes to AI computing. And sticking with
the tech trade, uh Micron suffering four
days of losses, but shares are up 2.6%
6% now in the pre-market ahead of
earnings uh after the bell. We did hear
from Wed Bush earlier in the week. They
raised their price target on the stock
saying that the memory market conditions
are strong which could lead to Micron
benefiting from higher average selling
prices. Though expectations are very
high with the stock up roughly 180% this
year. Lisa, thank you so much. Yahihara
on our radar this morning. Warner
Brothers Discovery is advising its
shareholders to reject a hostile
takeover bid by Paramount in favor of
its original agreement with Netflix. The
board of directors raising concerns
about Paramount's uncertain financing,
Damian, with this idea that maybe they
will not get the backing from both the
Ellison family or Jared Kushner's fund.
>> Well, Lisa, I was talking with Githa
Raganath and you know our strategist
here at BI on this just yesterday and
what she said was the deal is just not
enough money. I mean, there's a $1
breakup fee. The networks itself cost
$3. It needed to be something like 3175
$32 a share in order for Paramount to
actually be taken seriously. So I don't
think this is that much of a surprise to
the insiders.
>> Yeah, Gita is going to be joining us
within the hour. I'm just curious though
about what this means going forward
about the regulatory concerns, right?
Because a lot of this had to do with the
potential for President Trump to side
with Paramount Sky Dance because of the
Ellis involvement, not to mention Jared
Kushnet. you take them out of the
picture that you hear Warner Brothers
saying that the regulatory landscape is
the same for both. Does this really
increase the chances of Netflix more
materially?
>> Well, you only go back to what Trump
said just last week. He said it's going
to be very very difficult to get that
deal through given the consolidation of
the industry right all under Netflix
roof. So, I think you have to kind of
take him at his word there.
>> Well, let's talk about the consolidation
within the tech industry. Open AAI is in
initial discussions to raise at least
$10 billion from Amazon and use its
chip. The deal could value OpenAI at
more than $500 billion and mark a win
for Amazon's fledgling semi
semiconductor division. This really
comes down to Amazon trying to get its
chips in competition with Nvidia and
willing to pay up for it. They're paying
up for the privilege of OpenAI using
their chips. We all know that topline
growth at open AI is going to be limited
not just by you know obviously you know
it's cash burn but supply constraints
tied to you know compute for training
and inferencing. So this is something
that's not new. I think the fact that
they're partnering with Amazon on this
is kind of you know a good thing but you
know you're right. I mean the cash burn
and open AI look if you want to talk
about M&A activity to next year just
look at open AAI and you know what the
plans are there. I'm sure it's going to
be uh there's going to be an offering in
the not too distant future. It seems
like people are willing to swallow their
concerns because the promise is so great
that truthfully people have to finance
it somewhere. And so people are
shrugging this off and saying, "Look,
this is part of what's going on."
Meanwhile, the California DMV saying
Tesla sales in the state could be
suspended for 30 days if the company
doesn't change its marketing practices.
The agency accusing Tesla of misleading
consumers about its driver assisted
technologies, saying that it the idea of
self-driving isn't quite accurate with
respect to the technological
capabilities currently.
>> And yet the company shares are up on the
news, right? I mean, look, Tesla has had
its issues, right, since Elon Musk and
Trump had a little bit of a divorce, you
know, earlier in the year. But, you
know, it seems like the shares are
rallying and people are getting behind,
you know, effectively what the what the
company's plans are going forward. That
notwithstanding, Elon Musk makes a lot
of money as a CEO. So, it's also
difficult for, I think, shareholders to
get comfortable with that as well.
>> At the same time, is this a car company?
It's not trading like one. This is
trading like a robo taxi company that's
also promising uh robots and rainbows.
Turning to airlines Spirit renewing
discussions to merge with Frontier as a
Deep Discount Airlines struggles to
compete. I spoke with JetBlue CEO Joanna
Gered yesterday about the hurdles facing
smaller airlines. Take a listen.
smaller carriers really need to be given
a fair shot to win um in this
environment and that's not happening
right now. So, we're focused on what we
can control. We're focused on a whole
series of initiatives under our Jet
Forward program. We do need uh the
government to kind of make that a more
level playing field so smaller carriers
can more effectively compete. 2026
really is the year that we should reap
the benefits of all these initiatives
that we put into place in 2025. Sheila
Cayillu of Jeff joins us now for more.
And as we talk about mergers once again
in the airline space aside from the big
three, how difficult is it for companies
that are not Delta, United or American
to survive in the current landscape of
airlines?
>> Yeah, it seems this is seems to be more
defensive move on the part of the
airlines, right? Consolidation is driven
by defensive tactics and airlines in
general are a very tough business.
That's why they trade at 60% discount to
the market. Airplanes are expensive.
Boeing knows that uh costs are
expensive. 30% is jet fuel. 30% is labor
labor. And when your revenues are
growing 3% because your pricing is down
and your costs are up five, it creates a
very difficult environment for airlines
to thrive in. Whether that's gate costs
like JetBlue mentioned or additional
fees. Um it makes it hard for airlines.
So they have to consolidate or they have
to price down to take market share
>> or they have to become other industries
like credit card companies or uh luxury
experience providers. I mean, how much
is that the saving grace? The idea that
you could get some sort of additional
premium uh customer that people are
leaning into experiences willing to pay
for it. Uh how much is that uh really
truthfully the model going forward?
That's always been um the bulk case on
airlines. You value uh Delta Sky Miles
on a credit card multiple. You value
their MRO business on an aftermarket
multiple of 25 times Zebbita and all all
of a sudden you're getting an airline
for free essentially. So that's been the
bull case, but the separation of those
assets is likely hard and we haven't
seen that happen.
>> She I know you and the team at Jeffre
are bullish on United, but I'd like to
talk about American Airlines and some of
the management decisions which has put
the company in place where it is today.
I'm talking about Seattle. I'm talking
about routing. I'm talking about choice
of, you know, which airplanes to retire.
You know, what will it take for American
Airlines to write the ship here? Um, I
think the the airline setup into 26 and
I say this every January and then I
regret it in February. Uh, because I say
the setup is positive for airlines and I
I retract those comments pretty quickly
and we've done that for American the
last two years. But I do think the setup
is positive in that capacity going into
26 is fairly tight. That goes across the
board for the airlines and American in
particular has very easy comps. uh
recall a year and a half ago they had a
snap boo with their corporate
relationship. So their corporate is just
getting back to 2024 level. So they're
about a year behind. And if that's where
we've seen a lot of the premium growth
is on that corporate. So that could be a
huge upside driver for them um if they
take back their share and then some
which they seem to do. So they have the
easiest comp set um and airlines in
general have an easy comp set with the
shutdown with the tariff impact in Q1.
So essentially Q1 and Q4 are easy comps
for them into 26. But we'll see. I think
a rerating takes disciplined capacity in
the market and pricing for the main
cabin to really improve at least to
flat.
>> Well, let's shift gears to the
manufacturers. Let's talk about Airbus
and Boeing, right? Let's talk about, you
know, how the market's coping with these
supply chain bottlenecks. I'm talking
about forgings, castings, interiors.
Talk to us a little bit about what your
projections for those two companies are
in the new year.
>> Sure. So, I actually had one of my
favorite days of my career last week. I
went up to Seattle um by myself and got
to spend 10 hours in Reon and Everett
and it's it was the most fun I've had in
that I saw the Boeing Return line which
creates the 737. That's about 50% of
their sales buzzing for the first time.
It was really neat to see the three
lines cycling at 42. This is a
manufacturer that was doing 25 a month
in 24. so did double production at the
end of this year and the employment base
was invigorated. They were happy and I
think the new CEO Kelly Orberg who's
been there for 18 months is certainly
making that change happen. He's changed
about 40% of the leadership in order to
do that. So really good news on the 37
front in that the production rate is
actually going up. Airlines will have
planes um and it's a matter of
certification on large programs like the
trip 7X they have which they took a big
charge for in Q3. So, will that be
certified at the end of next year?
>> It sounds like all of the airline and
airplane related executives saying 2026
will be our year because 2025 wasn't
exactly it due to all of the minations
throughout the uh throughout this year.
I do want to end with Frontier and
Spirit. I know you can't talk to these
specific names. I do want to get a
general sense though about whether the
feeling right now in the seauite is that
this administration will be more
amendable to some of these tie-ups and
be more open on a regulatory front than
they have been. It's been a mess every
single time that companies have been
trying to uh that have tried to tie up.
>> Yeah, this this is clearly a defensive
move. It'll take about 5% of capacity
out of the market. It'll help remove
capacity out of strain markets where
you're seeing pricing down. So um you
know I think airline consolidation is
something we haven't seen a lot of in
aerospace. On the hand other hand going
back a deal a day in aerospace and
defense tech. Um we it's been very um
prolific for for transactions in that
market whether it's manufacturers or
defense tech with the administration
really supporting growth in the
industry. So that's been a positive.
>> Sheila thank you so much for being with
us. Sheilia Sheila Kayalu of Jeff here
in New York. Right now, let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your Bloomberg brief
with Yahira Anna and Jihara.
>> Hi, Lisa. President Donald Trump is set
to address the nation from the White
House tonight at 9:00 p.m. Eastern.
Press Secretary Caroline Levit saying
the president will highlight the year's
accomplishments and preview his policy
agenda for the year ahead. It comes at a
pivotal time as Trump's poll numbers
soften and with the economy facing
headwinds. Meanwhile, Ford has canled a
multi-billion dollar EV battery contract
with Korean supplier LG. The amount is
equivalent to more than a third of LG's
total revenue from last year. The
decision comes after the US automaker
also rolled back its electric vehicle
ambitions.
And Alphabet's autonomous driving unit,
Whimo, is in discussions to raise more
than $15 billion at a near $100 billion
valuation in a funding round led by its
parent company. Sources telling us here
at Bloomberg that Whimo and its wouldbe
financial backers have weight evaluation
as high as $110 billion as the company
ramps up its fleets and expands into new
cities. That's your Bloomberg brief.
Felisa,
>> thank you so much, Yahara. Up next, room
to chase. The small cap Russell 2000
index is only able to deliver 6%.
There's still room for a chase within
small caps, mostly if you're in this
this special environment where you're
expecting an easier Fed and you're
getting resilient growth. Jill Carrie
Hall of Bank of America Securities joins
us next so much hope gets tied up right
now with the small cap space from New
York. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
Good morning.
What we're seeing right now in markets
is a lift pretty much across the board
trying to get that Santa rally going
after three straight days of losses led
by the tech space up almost a half a
percent here on the NASDAQ. Russell 2000
climbing back to about 4/10en of a
percent gain. They has been they have
been leading and this really has been
the main question. Can we sustain that
heading into 2026? Right now in the bond
space, how much do you get the
participation of lower yields right now?
Not seeing it. Up three basis points on
the long end. 30-year yields 4.84%,
the 10-year 4.17. Under surveillance
this morning, room to chase.
You came into the year expecting 40% EPS
growth and the small cap Russell 2000
index is only able to deliver 6%. It
doesn't necessarily deserve the benefit
of the doubt. There's still room for a
chase within small caps, mostly if
you're in this this special environment
where you're expecting an easier fed and
you're getting resilient growth. Here's
the latest. Investors weighing whether
lower interest rates and accelerating
earnings growth could extend the recent
rally in small caps into next year. Jill
Carrie Hall is the head of US small and
midcap strategy at Bank of America
Securities and joins us now. Wonderful
to see you, Jill. Last year you were
talking about how the setup was very
similar. People were pretty excited
about small caps heading into 2025. You
weren't so much. It feels a little bit
like deja vu, but do you feel
differently than you did at the end of
2024? Yeah, I mean I think several
things have changed because you know
last year there was a lot of optimism
after the election but at the same time
you had uncertainty over tariffs which
hurt small caps more. They have very
thin margins. You had uncertainty over
Fed rate cut timing was starting to get
pushed out. Um and you had uncertainty
over when the profits recovery for small
caps was ever going to happen. It kept
getting kicked out. So you know now I
think a lot of those things have
reversed. we finally have seen profits
start to recover and we're seeing
management actually guide above
consensus more than below which is
supportive for revision trends remaining
positive. Um that hasn't been the case
the last several years. So you know
that's different. The Fed is now cutting
that's supportive for small caps. Um you
know tariffs I think there's a lot less
uncertainty and you know potentially we
could we could see some mitigation uh
you know as we move forward. So I think
the the setup is a lot more more
positive for small caps and if this is a
year where you know we don't see
multiple expansion driving returns and
we actually see earnings growth driving
returns which is what we expect small
caps are where the better earnings
growth is expected to be.
>> Some of the small cap skeptics come on
the show and they say everyone wants to
love the small caps because they love
the story of the small firms doing
better. But that really isn't the story
because these are the companies that
have just failed to get big enough to be
in the big leagues in the S&P 500 and
there's so many companies that are very
strong that have stayed in the private
space. So this isn't as high quality as
it used to be. Do you think that there
is some merit in that argument?
>> I do think there's some in that you know
it is true that the index has gotten
lower quality, there's fewer profitable
companies and then in terms of you know
companies staying private longer and
going public larger, we've definitely
seen that. Um, at the same time, you
know, there there has been a pickup in
IPOs recently. There still are, you
know, attractive opportunities in small
caps. I think we got to peak low quality
a few years ago back after the IPO boom
in, you know, 2020, 2021. But, you know,
you've seen, especially now as profits
are recovering, too, the proportion of
non-earners go down. You're seeing um,
you know, just the the quality of the
index start to improve a little bit. But
I do think, you know, you need to be
selective and, you know, you you see
that with how dispersed the the
valuations are within the index where
even though the Russell's trading, you
know, a little bit above its average um
within that there's a lot of dispersion.
The the largest Russell 2000 stocks are
actually very cheap versus history, but
the micro caps are trading about 80%
above average on their their sales price
to sales. So, um we'd actually avoid the
the micro cap segment, which has run up
a lot. Jill, quantum computing, Bitcoin
mining, flying taxis, and new energy
account collectively for 10% of R of the
Russell 2000 index. What are your
thoughts? I mean, a lot of those
companies have had exceptional
performance year to date. Can it
continue?
>> Well, I think there's certainly been a
number of themes within small caps and
pockets of the market that have gotten
driven up and, you know, some of the
micro caps like I mentioned and retail
trading has been, you know, a phenomenon
that's caused, you know, I guess on one
hand, better performance of the overall
small cap index this year. um but also
more concentration. So that's created a
really tough year for small cap active
managers where only about 15% of them
have been able to outperform the index
this year. So you know for managers that
are struggling they're not alone. It's
been a tough year for everyone to to
beat the benchmark which has become more
concentrated. So, you know, I think
there are still some opportunities in in
some of the interesting themes where,
you know, when we even look at AI, I
mean, this has obviously been more of a
a large cap story, but an increasing
proportion of small caps are are talking
about AI on earnings calls, and the ones
that are mentioning it the most are
actually cheaper and and have higher
expected growth than some of the large
caps. So, you know, I think it's an area
where a lot of stocks have run up, but
there's still a lot of opportunities and
one has to be selective. And you know,
it's not necessarily just owning the the
smallest um you know, kind of under the
radar stocks. We've actually found
historically that stocks that have more
coverage by analysts do tend to
outperform in small cap. So our analysts
at BFA cover about a thousand small and
midcap. So I think there's a lot of
opportunities within the space.
>> When you look at the small and midcap
universe going into 2026, would you
rather be invested in small cap value or
small cap growth? I think there's more
opportunity in value right now because
when you look at historically one of the
best triggers essentially for value
versus growth is profits recovery. So
when you know growth is accelerating and
becoming more abundant. You don't need
to pay up for expensive growth stocks.
Um and really when you look at value
within small caps it's historically much
cheaper than growth across pretty much
any metric you look at. So you know I
think we'd stick with we'd stick with
value but but definitely see opportunity
for the overall index to to rally as
well. Jill, how much is the whole idea
of Russell 2000 outperformance
predicated on the idea of a Federal
Reserve cutting rates versus actual true
growth in the economy? Right? This has
sort of been the divergence in the
economic circles so far this year,
>> right? I mean, we're we're looking for,
you know, continued economic growth, a
little bit of a pickup next year. I
think the fact that profits growth is
accelerating a lot tends to be more
important than than GDP growth
accelerating for small caps. Um, and Fed
cuts, I think, you know, you you kind of
need both because Russell has become
increasingly sensitive to Fed
expectations over the last two years,
much more so than historically. So, you
know, we're we're forecasting another
few Fed cuts this year, that should
support the index. But, but obviously,
if you you were to see economic data
start to weaken substantially. We're
watching the jobs backdrop. We're
watching the credit backdrop, which is
very important. Those would be risks.
And then I think the manufacturing
backdrop is you know the other one we're
watching closely because you know the
ISM manufacturing indicator is one of
the most correlated indicators with
small cap. So you know that's struggled
to to recover but but is at levels that
you know we are expecting manufacturing
to improve.
>> Jill talk to us about investor
positioning in small and midcap
equities. I mean are you seeing
institutional demand or is it largely
speculative retail?
>> Right. I mean, I think it's actually
starting to to be broad-based in terms
of the when we look at inflows from
different investor types in recent
months, especially since, you know,
August after Jackson Hole when when
sentiment kind of turned a bit on small
caps. We've seen, you know, retail,
institutional, hedge fund investors all
buying. We've seen big big inflows from
hedge funds in recent months. And, you
know, this is against a backdrop where
small caps uh when you look at their
their weight in multi-cap investor
holdings, they're extremely underweight.
You know, managers have reduced their
their positioning in small caps for many
years now in contrast to, you know, mid
and mega caps which are overweight.
>> Jill, have you ever had more interest,
more inbound calls from people saying,
"Please tell us what do we need to know?
What do we pick in small caps?"
>> Right. I mean, I think there's been a
lot of false starts for the size segment
overall. Um, but I think, you know, the
backdrop does look better than it did
relative to the past several years. And
you know, like I said, I think there's
there's a lot of opportunity for for the
index right now, as well as, you know, a
lot of the the stories within the index.
So hopefully this will will finally be
the year that we can get out of this,
you know, 10-year plus secular downturn
in small cap.
>> Spoken like someone who's had her phone
ring off the hook. Jill, thank you so
much for being with us. Jill Carrie Hall
there of Bank of America Securities. And
Jill was talking about the credit
backdrop and how much that's important
to continue being robust in order for
the space to take off. we are seeing
yields inlect higher uh relative yields
but not significantly still very much
strong there
>> well just the correlation between small
cap performance and you know the
indicators she's looking at like ISM you
know I mean you have to kind of dig a
little bit deeper when you're looking at
companies which are really tied more
toward bricks and mortar you know the
fundamental kind of root of the US
economy as opposed to these large market
cap growth related equities where most
investors are parked right now
>> yeah but I'm struck by how similar it is
that we're setting up for 2026 the same
way that we were setting up
Are you really surprised?
>> I am surprised. I mean, well, granted,
everyone is optimistic heading into the
new year. But still, it feels different
this time and I except for you and I who
are looking at all the potential
doomsday scenarios. It does feel
different this time. People are talking
about the potential doomsday scenarios
and explaining why they're still
bullish. So, maybe that gives some
people a pause. Coming up, we're going
to be speaking with Liz Thomas of SoFi,
Sarah House of Wells Fargo after what we
got yesterday from the labor market
report ahead of CPI tomorrow and
Bloomer's Gita Ranganathan on that
Netflix Warner Brothers deal. Vanep
Singh also join us to talk all about
circular financing or is it from New
York. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
Good morning.
This year it's all about single stocks.
It's all about earnings, fundamentals.
For now, investors prefer to focus on
AI.
>> We've got an AIdriven investment
booming.
>> Tech leadership will continue to
dominate, but alongside that, we believe
you can see that broadening.
>> A key driver of returns uh in 2025 and
likely in 2026 and beyond is going to be
that core AI exposure.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
Ann Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. And welcome back to
Bloomberg surveillance. Stocks
inflecting higher after three straight
sessions of losses. Big tech reclaiming
some leadership with open AI on talks to
raise 10 billion dollars from Amazon and
use its chips. More on that coming up.
Plus, oil prices surging from 2021 lows
as President Trump orders a blockade of
sanctioned Venezuelan oil tankers. Now,
all eyes turn to a presidential address
tonight. CPI data tomorrow. We get a
host of different rate decisions around
the world and then of course University
of Michigan sentiment. It is going to be
a busy tieup to the end of the last
trading week of 2025.
>> Yeah, the beta regime is yet to shift.
It's still about technology and I think
the market's really coming to grips with
the fact that leading into the AI theme
is uh is something that still makes
money for a lot of investors.
>> Well, it raises this issue of at what
point do the fears create more
confidence that this isn't a bubble? We
have heard that consistently from people
saying, "Look, if people still are
worried about the ways that things are
being financed, then it's time to keep
buying because that means that you
aren't necessarily seeing the irrational
exuberance of all bubble eras that have
come before."
>> And if you talk to my colleague Rob
Shipman, he'll tell you that from a
fundamental credit perspective, these
companies, Apple, Amazon, Meta, you name
it, are in very, very solid shape.
>> So, it goes to this question of how much
can central banks continue to fuel the
risk appetite. We've already heard from
the Federal Reserve pushing back on the
idea of rapidly cutting rates. We are
seeing the end of the rate cutting cycle
around the world and yet we are
expecting some additional rate cuts
possibly later this week.
>> Yeah, that's right. Well, today Mexico
is probably going to cut by 25 dips.
Tomorrow you're going to see Great
Britain, but you are going to see a hike
by the BOJ on Friday. So, it's not all
easing uh across the globe.
>> Well, it is easing right now when you
take a look at financial conditions in
the United States, at least ahead of the
market open. 90 minutes to go before the
US open and you do see a lift AC across
the board. S&P futures up almost 4/10en
of a percent. You do see just a touch of
dollar strength reasserting itself 11725
on the Euro dollar cross. The 10-year
yields now up about uh three basis
points, a little less than that at 417.
Crude really the one to watch given some
of the action over off the coast of
Venezuela up 1.8% off the lowest levels
that we've seen going back to February
of 2021. Coming up this hour, Liz Thomas
of SoFi as stocks edge higher. Gita
Rankinathan of Bloomberg Intelligence is
Warner Brothers is urging investors to
reject Paramount's takeover bid. And
Sarah House of Wells Fargo with
investors now awaiting the latest
inflation data. We begin this hour with
stocks uh higher ahead of uh 2D's three
days of losing streaks. We're right now
talking to Liz Thomas of SoFi who wrote,
"There remains high anxiety about
valuations and bubble-like
characteristics, but our stance for 2026
is to befriend the bubble rather than
bet against it. Sitting on the sidelines
can be the greater risk." Liz joins us
now. Liz, it's been too long. Great to
see you.
>> Great to be here.
>> Thank you for being here. So, why do you
say it's the bigger risk to remain on
the sidelines? Well, if you just look at
what markets have been dominated by, and
this is not news to anybody, but we've
got the tech sector and the MAG 7 making
up almost 50% of the S&P 500. So, you
really can't be absent from that. And
when you think about even what's gotten
us to this point, it has been AI
enthusiasm. Now, we're seeing some
really good signs of broadening out.
We're seeing other sectors start to take
part in this rally and carry their
weight. But the reality is in 2026, AI
needs to continue its march forward.
That doesn't mean that it needs to lead
the entire market again and all of those
stocks need to carry their heavier
weight. However, we do still need to see
the potential in the future. We do still
need to see productivity gains. We need
to see earnings strength and we need the
fundamental strength that does exist to
remain there. So, it is important for
investors to still be present in that
theme. So does it make you more
confident in remaining overweight in
some of these tech names given the fact
that we have seen some hiccups recently
that we have seen skepticism push back
from the investor community about some
of the financing plans from the likes of
OpenAI and Oracle.
>> So we wrestled with this a lot
especially the word overweight because
if you're overweight it means that
you've got a lot if you're just
comparing it to the market you've got a
lot in tech stocks. So even just to be
market weight is a big slug of your
portfolio. I think market weight is
probably the better way to look at it,
which still ends up being a lot in tech
stocks, communication stocks, basically
the mega7 plus things like AMD,
Broadcom, Oracle, and Palunteer, which
we're calling the big 11 then
collectively. So, if you look at those,
you're still going to have a pretty big
slug in your portfolio. But into 2026, I
think it's also important to make sure
that you have exposure to things that
haven't really been a part of the
conversation and could become a part of
the AI conversation as productivity
gains spread across other sectors. So
places like healthcare, even materials
if we're looking at not necessarily AI
productivity, but economic nationalism,
not likely to go anywhere anytime soon.
So sectors like materials can really
benefit from that. and then consumer
staples benefiting hopefully from some
stimulus that's coming in the first half
of the year.
>> Well, Liz, I know you and the team at
SoFi are leaning into the AI revolution,
but you also referenced the valuation
discount between US tech shares and
those in China. Talk to about China's
emergence as a technology hub.
>> Yeah. So, China is one of the it had
been one of the winners in 2025. It's
something that we believe can continue
winning in 2026. Not necessarily based
on valuations, although that's a bonus,
right? you're getting a little bit of a
valuation discount in a time when
everybody's obsessed with how much
they're paying for the potential. But
China, if we look at their economy,
China has a government that is committed
to making sure their economy can come
out of this soft patch and I think they
will stay committed to that. So that
says good things for the consumer in
China going forward. And then Chinese
tech continues to innovate at a really
fast pace. And we know that US companies
are looking at China and trying to size
them up for are we are we in good
competition here? Are we still beating
them? And I think that that race is
going to be good for AI's potential in
general.
>> Liz, I know you're also pretty bullish
on gold, the structural buying from
central banks. Talk to us a little bit
about the place that gold has in a
diversified institutional portfolio. So,
gold is a topic that I did not think was
going to be coming out of my mouth for
three or four straight years. Uh, I was
bullish on gold a few years ago. People
thought I was nuts or, you know,
grandma's trade, somebody buying gold in
a time when technology was the hot
thing. Gold continues to win. Gold has
beat the S&P over periods of time that I
don't think anybody expected. I do still
think there's opportunity for gold in
2026. the demand by central banks and
just the theme of gold being now the
safe haven in an era of currency
volatility of a lot of central bank
uncertainty that keeps a floor on the
demand because central bank demand is
sticky. It's not something that they're
going to change very quickly and we've
had a theme of this since Russia invaded
Ukraine back in 2022. I think that
remains. What's happened in gold over
the last year is that retail started to
perk up and also participate in the
trade drove it even higher. Now, when
retail starts to take part, you see a
lot more volatility because we saw
almost a parabolic move at certain
points this year that then we gave back
a little bit. But in 2026, I expect gold
to see further upside and I still think
that it can produce attractive returns.
How do you see 2026 being the most
different from 2025 in terms of the
investment path given that we did see uh
pretty huge gains in the S&P? We saw
gold do very well and a lot of the same
themes that people see continuing.
>> So we already covered China and gold.
Those are the winners that I think
continue winning and then some of the
things that I mentioned before. So
sectors that I think can step into the
limelight, healthcare, materials,
consumer staples, and then companies
that are what I would call cash cows.
And there are actually ETFs that
represent things like that. But
companies that are in good cash
positions that can still finance the
growth and finance the capex boom that
probably continues into 2026. So some of
those themes in the valueoriented
sectors I think probably step into more
of a strength position in 26 and will
become a bigger part of the conversation
than they've been in 25.
>> What's the biggest risk? Everyone seems
pretty bullish heading into next year
and I just wonder whether it's a
question of a Fed that doesn't
necessarily cut, whether it's a US
economy that doesn't necessarily perform
or whether it's something on the
geopolitical stage that everyone seems
to be ignoring.
>> So the the common answer to this would
be that it's the Fed. But if you look at
what the market's expecting, the market
isn't even pricing in another rate cut
until April, maybe even June of next
year. So already we're looking forward
and saying, "All right, the first four
to six months of the year, we're going
to be okay without a rate cut." The Fed
is now committed to buying $40 billion
of treasuries per month until April. So
there's enough support there. And then I
think everybody's just anticipating this
changing of the guard and the Fed chair
in May. So we're okay with waiting until
we get that next cut. I think the
biggest risk, and this isn't all that
different from 25, but the biggest risk
is that AI revenue doesn't come in as
strongly as everybody expects. The
revenue is important in order to support
the spending, in order to support profit
margins. Now, you'll notice I didn't say
that the spending is important. Of
course, it is, but we know that the
spending levels are going to slow down
in 2026, and that's okay. We're starting
to mature in this theme and in the
innovation process. But the revenue
needs to materialize and the profit
margins need to be there as well. I
think the most important aspect of it of
this is that we see the AI productivity
starting to spread into other sectors of
the economy.
>> As we talk about gold buying by central
banks and I wonder if we could just take
that to the next step. Let's talk about
the dollar. The dollar's places the
world's reserve currency. The whole
dollar debasement trade.
>> Do you think that still has legs?
>> That has been a discussion I think for
my entire career on and off. And I don't
think that the dollar will suddenly be
displaced as the world's reserve
currency. However, we now have things
like crypto as an option for investors.
Crypto obviously demonstrating a lot
more volatility than something like the
dollar or really any other currencies,
the euro, some of the the majors.
>> However, there are other options out
there now for investors and investors
are are voting with those options and
saying, you know what, maybe we don't
want so much exposure to fiat
currencies. maybe we don't like the way
that central banks are necessarily
handling things and we're not loving the
the fiscal I'll call it in discipline
around the globe. So there have been
worries that have come into the picture
and I think the benefit to investors
today is that there are other things for
you to choose from besides just the
dollar if you're looking for some
protection or at least just some uh
distance from currency volatility.
>> I'll challenge you on Bitcoin serving as
a store of value in times of distress.
But, you know, to that point,
>> I didn't say that.
>> Right. Swiss Frank, Japanese yen. I
mean, does some of these other more
historically defensive assets um still
hold muster in your view?
>> I mean, they hold muster, but they still
go into that basket of fiat currencies.
So, I think the the alternative options
in the space being gold and some crypto
are a good way to diversify that
exposure. So, I mean, of course, you
want a diversified basket of currencies
in general, but again, to come back to
the original point, I don't think the
dollar goes away as the world's reserve
currency, but I do think investors have
a lot at their disposal today. And
they're using it and and it seems as
though they're using it properly. Liz
Thomas of SoFi, great to have you on.
Let's do it again sometime soon. Uh Liz
Thomas there right now, let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your Bloomberg brief
with Yahara and Antihara.
>> Hi, Lisa. Warner Brothers Discovery is
advising its shareholders to reject a
hostile takeover bid by Paramount
Skyance in favor of its original
agreement with Netflix. Warner Brothers
board is deeming the Paramount offer
inferior and inadequate and if the and
that the terms of the Netflix merger are
superior. Warner Brothers Discovery's
chairman saying it will hold its
shareholder votes in either the spring
or early summer. andricolor Holdings
founder Daniel Chu is being charged by
federal prosecutors with conspiring to
defraud lenders and investors of the
company. The subprime auto dealer is
alleged to have double pledged tens of
thousands of loans amounting to massive
fraud. Triricolor filed for bankruptcy
back in September after shutting down
more than 60 locations in the
southwestern US. And FIFA is slashing
some ticket prices for next summer's
World Cup to $60. The rare move comes
following global backlash over high
price of entry with the cheaper tickets
to be made available for every game at
the tournament in North America. Each
team will receive roughly 400 to 750 of
these $60 seats under FIFA's new
supporter entry tier. That's your
Bloomberg brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yah. Up next, the
morning calls. Plus, Ga Gita Ranganath
of Bloomberg Intelligence as Warner
Brothers is urging investors to reject
Paramount's takeover bid. That's coming
up next from New York. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
We don't think we're near, you know, a
kind of hyper speculation level that you
you'd see in a real bubble. And, you
know, our own view is on on the Mag 7.
You you they are the core of this era,
if you will, this industrial revolution.
But we're being selective there. And we
think the market is too. I mean, if you
look at some of the big players in that
space, they're not trading at excessive
valuations.
>> That was Stephen O of Federated Hermes
earlier this morning as we do see a lift
across the board. Just to give some
perspective to his comments, we've seen
about a 20% gain so far this year on the
NASDAQ. The S&P up about 16%, building
on that a little bit this morning, up to
ten of a percent on S&P futures. Uh
yields inflected higher but lower than
they were earlier this morning. gone
from three basis points to two basis
point climb below that 4.17%
mark and not seeing the rally sustain
itself quite as robustly in the crude
space coming off some of its lowest
levels going back to February 2021 time
now for the morning calls first up bar
raising its price target on raw stores
to $200 expecting an improving backdrop
into 2026 those shares essentially flat
next up Telsea advisory analyst Dana
Telsey raising a price target on GAP to
outperform form, noting continued
progress in reestablishing its brands.
Those shares up almost 3%. And finally,
Barclay is upgrading Hyatt to
Overweight, seeing 2026 as another
idiosyncratic year for the gaming,
lodging, and leisure space, just in time
for all of the holiday vacations, up
1.4%. Turning to media now, Warner
Brothers Discovery advising its
shareholders to reject a hostile
takeover bid by Paramount in favor of
its original agreement with Netflix.
Skitha Ranganathan of Bloomberg
Intelligence joins us now. Githa, what
did we learn so far this morning from
this latest filing?
>> Uh, hey Lisa. So, this is really no
surprise at all. I mean, we knew this
was this was happening after u Paramount
launched its hostile bid. So, Warner
Brothers basically saying that the terms
were inadequate, inferior, and illusory.
Uh, so inadequate because the $30 a
share uh they think really kind of uh
undervalues their TV networks. Um they
also raised concerns about financing. Uh
so you know there there's been constant
talk about the bid being fully backs
stopped by the Ellison family. Warner
Brothers Discovery Board saying that's
not true and that it's it's going back
to an irrevoc or sorry a revocable
trust. So again there's a lot of
uncertainty and a lot of risks. Um and
then finally I think you know Warner
Brothers saying that really the
regulatory risk between a Netflix deal
and a Paramount Skyance deal not all
that different. They also point to
completely different financial profiles
of both you know Netflix and Paramount
you know basically talking about Netflix
being a $400 billion market cap company
Paramount $15 billion. So you know just
a whole lot of different concerns raised
in that letter to shareholders.
>> Keith talk to us about the overlap
between Netflix and HBO Max. Is this the
most problematic aspect of the
combination?
>> Yeah. Uh Damian, I mean definitely uh
you know this is going to be uh an issue
because uh just if you combine those two
streaming services, they are obviously
some of the largest streaming services
in the world. They will make up about 30
to 35% of the market. But I think what
Netflix has repeatedly argued and a lot
of I think investors also seem to agree
with this view that it you know you
can't consider just streamers as as you
know part of the landscape. You have to
include everything. You have to include
social media. You're including YouTube.
You're including Tik Tok reels. I mean,
this is how people are spending their
time these days. And if you kind of look
at if you broaden and zoom out and look
at the whole market in its entirety,
then maybe it doesn't really pose such a
regulatory problem after all.
>> Keith, I'm sure the market is pricing in
uh the prospect of tough antitrust
scrutiny over the deal. I mean, what are
your thoughts there going forward?
>> Yeah, I mean, antitrust is definitely
going to be a big issue. We just saw,
you know, Jared Kushner's affinity kind
of pull out of the deal because of bad
optics. You know, if you kind of look at
it really from a from a Paramount Warner
perspective, uh, yes, you know, the the
box office share would be about 30%,
again, Jenry, who's our antitrust
analyst, didn't really think that would
be too much of a problem. those two
streaming uh you know platforms again
shouldn't really uh be so much of an
issue because they're both somewhat or
rather paramount plus is a little bit of
a subscale platform so still under you
know the 200 million subscriber mark so
there there are just so many different
considerations though uh Damian but I
think in general the view was that
Netflix would have a tougher time uh
from an antitrust perspective but again
it's it's all up in the air
>> and part of this Gita has been CNN a
real question of what that looks like in
terms of new ownership based on what
President Trump has said. What's
proposal in the current proposal from
Netflix to buy Warner Brothers for CNN?
Do we have a sense of who that remains
with?
>> So with the Netflix proposal, nothing
can happen with CNN because Warner uh
because Netflix is only buying the
studio and the streaming business. So,
you know, with President Trump
suggesting that there would have to be a
CNN sale, Warner Brothers Discovery
would have to figure out some other way
to sell just that network. With the
Paramount transaction, of course, we
don't have that problem because
Paramount is buying all of Warner
Brothers Discovery, which includes the
TV network business as well as CNN.
>> Meanwhile, there's a real question of
financing, and this is clearly what was
on the minds of Warner Brothers senior
management when they put out this latest
filing and recommended to investors that
they back the Netflix deal. They said
that the Ellison family is not backing
the Paramount Sky Dance transaction. We
already saw reporting that Jared
Kushner, as you mentioned, pulled his
fund out of the participation of this
financing. Just how insecure is the
position of Paramount Sky Dance,
especially compared to Netflix?
>> Yeah, I mean this has really been kind
of the sticking point with the Warner
Brothers Discovery Board. So, you know,
they've argued, yeah, if you are, you
know, talking about, you know, one of
the wealthiest uh families in the world
kind of backing this deal, how are we
not seeing it on paper, right? So, you
know, you have $40 billion in equity
financing. About 60% of that, so almost
24 billion is coming from, you know,
middle is Middle Eastern money. You
haven't really submitted, you know, a
knockout bid. And there is this problem,
this constant problem of debt. So, you
know, in the letter, Warner Brothers
Discovery raises this point that
Paramount would be seven times, Lisa,
seven times levered by the end of next
year if they did this deal. That really
kind of puts, you know, it it just
raises so many different risks. And then
remember, even if the transaction does
go through, you're going to have uh, you
know, a combined company with a with a
very heavy leverage with 80% of that
EBIDA coming from the TV business. That
is the melting ice cube business versus
you know you take a Netflix which is
already generating about $15 billion in
IBIDA and and streaming is really in
much much more healthier shape with
which much much brighter growth
prospects. So you know everything seems
to be problematic about the Paramount
deal right now from at least a financing
perspective
>> and that's why you're seeing Paramount
shares lower in pre-market trading and
Netflix seeing a boost of about 2% in
the pre-market action. Keith Rankenathan
of Lubric Intelligence. Thank you so
much. We look forward to speaking with
you extensively about this deal as it
percolates through the system. In the
meantime, we are getting some breaking
news. The Financial Times is reporting
that Oracle's $10 billion of Michigan
data center is in limbo after Blue Owl,
the private equity and debt firm, has
said that it's not necessarily going to
finance this. Oracle shares falling
almost 3%, Blue Owl falling almost 4%.
And this comes after big questions about
Oracle in particular, how much leverage
it's packed on, what its promises on the
data center front look like, and how
sustainable, Damian, some of this really
is.
>> You know, Lisa, I often ask, you know,
we're seeing all these capex figures
tied to AI tech spending last year, this
year, but you know, is that spending,
wasn't that planned for 10 years ago
when they first because it takes 10
years to ramp up a data center, right?
So my question is, have they really
invested anything meaningfully today
that's not showing up in 10 years time?
I just kind of I struggle with that a
little bit, you know, like what where
are we in the cycle and does this really
impact what is planned for 2026? I'm not
so sure.
>> This has to do with a one gigawatt
center uh that focuses a data center
that is being built to serve opening eye
and saline township Michigan. Blue Owl
of course has been the bigger backer of
Oracle and all of its buildouts. It's a
private debt and equity fund that has a
significant proportion of its
investments tied up with artificial
intelligence and data centers. That's
the other big question here. Have we
reached the limits of some of the
biggest backers of this for the time
being? Does there need to be
diversification in terms of sources of
money to really back some of these
projects?
>> Well, I think what you're hinting at
here is is the private credit market
actually have its limitations because it
has been such a, you know, I'm talking
shadow financing. I'm talking, you know,
the flexibility, the optionality that it
affords small and medium enterprises
here in the US to fund whatever it is
they're looking to do. Now we're seeing
some limitations placed on that sector
as a potential source of financing
>> particularly by some of the publicly
traded uh private asset managers.
Exactly. So uh we'll follow the story as
it develops coming up in the next half
hour. Sarah House of Wells Fargo with
investors awaiting Thursday's CPI
report. Plus Yhierra Anand with your
morning movers. Lenar uh falling on
strains in the housing sector. Those
shares lower by 5.2%. Good morning.
>> Good morning. Look, welcome back. We're
looking to build on what has been a
banner year for equities right now on
the 16% gain that we've seen in the S&P
500, adding about a quarter of a percent
in pre-market trading, adding a bit more
on the tech space. NASDAQ shares uh
climbing as well after again, I mean,
the rally of almost 20% so far this
year. I just keep stumbling over that
baby and the idea. It's been such a good
year.
>> Yeah. No, it has been. And look, I mean,
I if you if you listen to any of our
guests over the last two days, they
think next year is going to be much the
same. You know, I just find it so
interesting that today what we're
talking about is exactly the same thing
we were talking about one year ago. And
we are coming off a massive, massive
year in both stocks and bonds.
>> Yeah. And people are looking at possibly
greater participation in the bond space
next year with long ed yields that have
been climbing. Although, how much do we
see the Fed put their thumb on that
scale? One hour away from the cash open.
Here are your morning movers with Yahira
Antihira.
>> Hi, Alisa. We are seeing homebuilder and
our shares falling 5% in the pre-market
as it warns that lower mortgage rates
have not done enough to spark a
meaningful rise in housing demand. and
its forecast for orders, deliveries, and
margins for the first quarter all fell
below uh Wall Street expectations with
affordability still a central issue for
wouldbe home buyers even as LAR
continues to offer big sales incentives
that have hurt its profits along the
way. Meanwhile, moving on to Frontier
shares, those are rising 7.7% in the
pre-market. Honor reporting that the
airline is back in merger talks with
Spirit Airlines, highlighting how all
these carriers are under pressure to
grow in order to compete with the big
three. A deal would create the fifth
largest carrier in the US. And a big
setback for Oracle. The FT is reporting
that its main partner, Blue Owl, has
just backed out of a deal for a $10
billion data center in Michigan. The
project meant to power open aa open AI
now facing major financing questions as
investors continue to worry about
Oracle's massive debt and AI spending.
The FT also reporting that Blackstone
has held talks to step in but no word on
that just yet. Lisa, thank you so much.
A fascinating development given the fact
that as you mentioned before and I think
it is the right discussion to have. what
are the limitations on private asset
managers to really push back uh against
financing some of this buildout
>> or to find uh you know some sort of a
syndicate or somebody else in the space
to help assist with the funding of it.
Right. I mean that's really what it
comes down to and it just seems to me
that uh that yeah you know a lot of
money is tied up in other non-performing
assets and it's going to be tough to
find powder to to to put into these data
centers and bail out places people like
Oracle.
>> Yeah. Which is a reason why you are
seeing differentiation right now within
the tech space. is turning now to
Washington DC. President Donald Trump
reportedly preparing to interview Fed
Governor Chris Waller for the Fed chair
position today. Bloomberg's Michael McKe
joins us now. Fast-paced uh race for the
Fed chair, although it has been going on
for quite a while. Mike, what's the
latest in terms of who is the favorite?
Well, right now Kevin Hasset is back to
being the favorite, but Chris Waller is
getting all of the attention on Wall
Street because not only is he meeting
with the president today. He is speaking
right now and he's talking both about
the possibility of becoming the chair
and the US economy and what he thinks is
going to happen on the economy. He is
defending the idea of continuing rate
cuts going forward, saying that
productivity could help and in 2026 it
could turn out to be a better year in
part because of AI, in part because of
the uh the fiscal stimulus that's
coming. And he says he's not
particularly worried about inflation
because while he knows it's above
target, it will be coming down over the
next three or four months. uh he's
referring to the tariff inflation target
uh inflation that we've gotten and he
thinks that works its way through the
economy. He's also saying that uh and
pressed about it that of course he would
demand Fed independence if he were the
Fed chair, but he would continue the
tradition of speaking with the Treasury
Secretary in whatever administration
there is. Uh he is the third contender
to meet with the president that we know
about. Uh earlier we know Kevin Hasset
was uh meeting with the president and
tagged as the favorite. Then last week,
late last week, the president met with
Kevin Walsh and he suddenly surged into
the uh prediction market betting
favorites role and now uh it is Waller's
turn. He has picked up some bets on that
and he's taken away from Walsh. So
Hasset back in the lead at the moment.
Nobody really knows what's going to
happen. probably not going to get
anything tonight from the president, but
he is going to be talking about
inflation and uh and what he's
accomplished this year. Uh something to
keep in mind, inflation is expected to
go up when we get the CPI tomorrow. We
don't get a month- over-month reading
because there's no October data, but we
are going to get a year-over-year
rating, and it's supposed to go up to
3.1%. And as you can see, uh the
president's economic accomplishments
haven't been all that strong. So, it's
going to be interesting to see what he
has to say about that tonight and uh how
much of it will be accurate.
>> Michael McKe, thank you so much for
that. Sticking with the Federal Reserve,
Sarah House of Wells Fargo writing, "Our
base case remains two 25 basis point
rate cuts in the first half of next year
at the March and June FOMC meetings with
risks skewed toward more rather than
fewer cuts in 2026. Sarah joins us now."
Sarah, thank you so much for being with
us. This kind of builds on what we're
hearing actually this morning from Chris
Waller, the Fed governor, who is a
contender to become the next Fed chair,
where he's saying the labor market is
very soft. The US is close to zero jobs
growth, kind of fortifying the idea of
more rate cutting ahead. Why do you
think that this is still the case even
after some of the conflicted
interpretation of yesterday's non-farm
payrolls?
>> Sure. So, I think it comes down to what
we're seeing both on the labor market
side and the inflation side. So, as you
saw yesterday, the labor market
continues to gradually soften. We've
seen that unemployment rate drift up
from 4% at the start of the year to 4.6%
in in November. And then on the
inflation side, so yes, inflation has
been sticky. We've been stuck around 3%.
We think we'll be there through much of
the first half of next year when you
measure it on a year-over-year basis.
But of course, a lot of that has to do
with the pickup in goods inflation that
we think are are is tied to tariffs. And
if you look outside goods inflation, you
continue to see services disinflate. So
at least slower rate of of inflation.
And stepping back, I I just I really
don't see a lot of forces that are going
to put even further upward pressure on
on inflation. So our base case is that
you will see inflation improve over the
course of of 2026, which I think will
give the Fed confidence to move closer
to that neutral stance. So what do you
have a better sense of what neutral is
not just when it comes to benchmark
rates but also when it comes to the
labor market? I mean this idea of zero
jobs growth comes with greater
participation more people coming into
the labor market signs that there is a
pickup in hiring at least according to
the latest real-time ADP indicators and
a sense that the beginning of next year
should be better for the economy. So how
really how weak do you see this labor
market as really being? I don't see it
as as terribly weak, but I do see it as
softer than than where we were at the
beginning of the year. And and now
you're looking at the jobs market and
the unemployment rate, you know, a
little bit on the wrong side of the
Fed's maximum employment mandate. So,
the good news is we're still not seeing,
you know, really widespread layoffs. So
yes, you've had the challenger
announcements pick up over the past
year, but initial jobless claims rema
remain low, but at the same time, we're
just not seeing enough jobs being
created to uh to accommodate the people
who have moved into the labor market
over over the past few months. And if
you look at the participation rate, so
even with the 610 increase we've seen in
the unemployment rate, participation is
is still down a tenth. So, I think even
with the increase that we saw yesterday
that, you know, we're still seeing uh
that I I think we're still seeing just
not enough jobs being created um for the
for the the broader workforce.
>> Sarah, you're calling for a CPI print of
3% tomorrow. The market's at 3.1%.
What exactly will it take for CPI to
fall toward 2% by the end of next year?
>> So, by the end of the in next year, I
think that that might be a tall order.
So I think it would need to see slower
growth than than we anticipate. So we're
anticipating that GDP growth next year
is is actually a little bit stronger at
least if you look at it on on a Q4 Q4
basis. So you'd probably have to see
weaker growth, probably get some help
from lower commodity prices, you know,
particularly with oil and gasoline that
can lead to to some pretty to some
pretty big moves. But I think you can at
least get back that direction. So we're
looking for core PCE to end the year
around two and a half two 2.6% 6% or so.
And I think that's going to come with
slower housing inflation. That's that's
already in train. You're seeing on on
the CPI side further further
deceleration things like auto auto
insurance which which is helping. So in
some ways I think this is just some some
time that it's taking where the pandemic
or inflation there's there's a long tail
for that especially in in services. And
so I think we're going to see some of
the benefits of of the of time as we
move through the year. And again, just
not seeing very many sources of of a
further upward pressure on inflation
when you look at the jobs market, what
we're seeing in commodity prices outside
of pre of precious metals. And so I
think you you will see that directional
improvement as we move through 2026,
even if we're not getting all the way
back to 2% next year.
>> And Sarah, what about productivity
gains? Right. In last week's SP by the
Federal Reserve, I mean, we saw they
upgraded FY26 GDP growth by8% with no
change to unemployment. That's got to be
productivity gains, right? Do you think
that will help fuel the move from 2%.
>> I do think that that's part of it. So,
the fact that you have wage costs coming
down, but also that's limiting both the
ability for consumers to absorb higher
prices, but then when you get into
productivity, that limits the need for
businesses to to raise those prices. So,
we've already seen productivity pick up
this cycle by a few tenths, but I think
once you get the jobs revisions in terms
of those benchmarks that we're we're
looking for that you're going to see
even stronger productivity growth
already in in train. So, probably
somewhere a little over over 2%, you
know, wage growth right now around 3 and
a.5%. So, that does point to lower
overall in inflation and I think helping
to to get back closer to the Fed's 2%
target. Sarah, how much is the outlook
for next year predicated on who becomes
the next Fed chair?
>> I don't think it's that dependent. So, I
think no matter who you get, whether
it's one of the Kevins, whether it's
Chris, you you're going to see probably
a slightly more dovish skew to to the
committee with that new leader, but of
course, they have to have buyin from the
rest of the committee. And so, that's
going to depend on the relationships
that they build. And I think it's still
going to depend on on the overall data
backdrop. So I think maybe you get uh a
you know maybe one additional rate cut
than than you would have otherwise but
it's not going to be a wholesale change
in terms of of the rate outlook
depending on on who on who you get. I
think the data is still going to be the
primary determinant given that it is a
committee decision.
>> Sarah House of Wells Fargo, thank you so
much for being with us. Have a wonderful
holiday season. Right now let's get you
an update on stories elsewhere. Here is
your Bloomberg brief with Yahara on it.
Yhira.
>> Hi Lisa. The Financial Times is
reporting Blue Owl will not back a $10
billion deal for Oracle's next data
center. The facility is being
constructed in Michigan to serve Open
AI. The FT says Blackstone has
considered stepping in as a financial
partner, but no deal is solidified.
Oracle shares down 2%. Meanwhile, the US
is preparing a fresh round of sanctions
on Russia's energy sector should
President Vladimir Putin reject the
latest peace agreement with Ukraine. The
new measures could target vessels in
Russia's shadow fleet of tankers and the
traders who facilitate transactions with
sources saying they may be unveiled as
early as this week. And the New York
Knicks have won the 2025 NBA Cup,
rallying in the fourth quarter to defeat
the San Antonio Spurs 124 to 113. Jaylen
Brunson scored 25 points and was named
the most valuable player of the
tournament. While the win doesn't affect
their regular season standings, the
Knicks will now head back to New York
with a new banner to hang in the garden.
That's your Bloomberg brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much.
I have to say when you Google Knicks
just huge fireworks come up if you want
to take a look because at least they
finally won. I'm sorry at some point
they got a win.
>> A come on not finally. They were great
last year and they are great again this
year. They are a real contender. I am a
huge Jaylen Brunson fan and I am very
optimistic about our prospect.
>> I want the Knicks to be back in the
1990s type of greatness. I mean come on
let's
>> Oh, yesterday was a bit of a throwback,
right? It was the Spurs Knicks. I
remember those days. Tim Duncan. Those
were great old days. Patrick Ewing.
Something to look forward to. Up next,
setting you up for the day ahead. Plus,
Mandep Singh of Bloomberg Intelligence
is Oracle shares fall on reports. Blue
Owl will not be backing its next data
center deal. Those shares lower by about
2%. Blue Owl falling by 2.2% as well.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
If you just look at what markets have
been dominated by, and this is not news
to anybody, but we've got the tech
sector and the MAG 7 making up almost
50% of the S&P 500. So, you really can't
be absent from that. The reality is in
2026, AI needs to continue its march
forward. That doesn't mean that it needs
to lead the entire market again. And we
need the fundamental strength that does
exist to remain there. It is marching
forward again at least this morning.
That was Liz Thomas of SoFi right now.
Futures indicating this is going to be
the first positive day in four at least
if we can maintain these gains up about
a quarter% on S&P futures. Yields coming
off some of the earlier highs, but still
416 on the 10-year. We really do want to
focus on big tech. Take a look at these
two names, Oracle and Blue Owl. two
companies that have been very much in
the data center sphere. We can see both
uh both companies seeing losses of about
2% or more in pre-market activity after
Oracle's deal to potentially inc uh
backing for recent data centers in
Michigan by Blue Owl seems to be falling
apart. This to me highlights a question
of who is going to be left holding the
bag and it underscores the concerns that
some people have. Bloomberg's Mandy
Singh joins us now to talk through this.
This is Financial Times reporting now
and good morning that this deal for
Oracle to get financing from Hulu seems
to be falling through. Why is this so
significant at a time where financing is
increasingly in focus?
>> Well, right now I think Oracle CDS
spreads clearly show that there is
concern around the level of debt that
they plan to take when it comes to
building this AI infrastructure and it's
all tied to open AI. In my mind, you
know, uh the entire uh Oracle backlog,
which is $500 billion, 300 of that comes
from one company, OpenAI. And if OpenAI
is uh losing their lead when it comes to
the frontier model labs, that's what
Gemini 3 showed us that they have caught
up. Enthropic is doing very well. that
puts into focus how much open AI will be
able to ramp up their revenue because
they do have a $200 billion revenue
target by 2030. Can they really get
there? And if that's not the case, then
how will they finance, you know, all the
buildout and the spend on Oracle
infrastructure? So that's where it's all
interconnected in terms of OpenAI not
being able to ramp up their revenue, not
being able to pay for compute that
Oracle plans to bring online. And that's
where you know the market is showing
that concern and CDS spreads and now
with this deal.
>> So it seems like Oracle is a proxy for
OpenAI. But the real fear as you
outlined is that or OpenAI cannot make
good on pretty lofty promises and this
is only underscored this morning by news
that Amazon is in talks to give $10
billion to to Open AI in return for
OpenAI using its chips. I mean, how
concerned are you about the systemic
risk of open AI at a time when its
promises are getting bigger and bigger?
>> Well, that's where I think they probably
regret talking about 26 gawatt capacity
and the $1.4 trillion in spend they
wanted to make uh by 2030. That's where
everything started to go wrong. And you
know everyone thought this doesn't seem
reasonable you know and and uh on top of
that you saw Gemini 3 doing very well
and now Enthropic which is two of the
three frontier labs are using Google
GPUs and Enthropic is saying in fact for
me Amazon and OpenAI partnering is a
sign that Enthropic is further moving
away from Amazon and really going in
that Google camp where they're uh going
to be using Google Tpus for both
training and inference. ing workloads
and that again puts into focus what
happens to the open AI ecosystem that
involves Microsoft that involves Nvidia
and uh I I think you're seeing that
concerns really show up in the market
right now. Well, Mandep, let's talk
about those factors that are limiting
topline growth for OpenAI Anthropic. Is
that supply constraints tied to compute
for learning and inferencing? I mean,
talk to us about what that means. I
mean, what are the real constraints that
are preventing Sam Alman from growing
his company at the pace it needs to? I
mean so far uh the prevailing wisdom was
open AAI has a big lead when it comes to
their models and it showed up in their
consumer chatbot mus you know 800
million monthly active users now it
seems like all these models have
narrowed that lead even Grock and you
know uh Gemini anthropic all of them are
good in certain type of tasks compared
to open AI and so that's where that lead
has narrowed and with that lead
narrowing everyone is questioning How
will open AI 10x their revenue even if
they get to $20 billion run rate by end
of this year? How will they 10x 2030
given you have got like four or five
players? It's not a winner take all
market anymore. Whereas the prevailing
wisdom was it is a winner take all
market with LLMs and open AAI is the
front runner. That has changed for sure.
>> Well Mandy, you mentioned Google's TPU.
So let's talk about these custom silicon
microchips. I mean are you seeing demand
for those increase at the same pace that
you would otherwise have thought for
Nvidia and its Blackwell its chips? I
mean is it rising to be sort of a real
rival to Nvidia on that front? It
certainly is and the Broadcom earnings
actually gave us a very clear indicator
that they are ramping up with Enthropic
uh $10 billion order and that is all
built around Google TPU design. So to my
mind it's a two-horse race now when it
comes to accelerators. It's uh Nvidia
GPUs and Google TPUs and everyone else
is sort of left behind. I'm surprised
Open AI may be uh leveraging Amazon in a
big way because when it comes to the
real performance it still is Nvidia and
Google TPUs and that's what's changed
again in the last 3 months.
>> Just quickly Mandep can the entire AI
ecosystem see really robust gains if you
don't have participation of open AI next
year? Well, OpenAI is will still be a
formidable player, but it's not the only
winner take all sort of LLM provider.
And that's where, you know, having four
or five LLMs is very different from
having one company like search. Google
owns search for such a long time.
Everyone thought OpenAI will own that
LLM space for a very long time. Now,
it's four or five players. So, OpenAI
will still do well. It's just they can't
ramp to $200 billion in revenue in the
timeline that they laid laid out. Mandep
Singh, it is always wonderful to get
your thoughts. Thank you so much for
being with us here. Mandep Singh of
Bloomberg Intelligence. Turning to
Washington DC, President Donald Trump
set to address the nation tonight at
9:00 p.m. Eastern. Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall joins us now from the White
House. Tyler, do we have a sense of what
he's planning to talk about?
>> Yeah. Hey, Lisa. Well, this is going to
be President Trump's chance to address
American voters directly as the White
House is already trying to set the tone
ahead of the midterms. We heard from
White House press secretary Caroline
Levit yesterday preview that we can
expect President Trump to tout his
policies from this last year while also
saying that he will tease in her words
new policies ahead. This could be
anything from foreign policy to
immigration. But of course we know one
issue that this White House has been
playing defense over has to do with
affordability related to its economic
policies. And that's going to be
something that we're going to be
watching really closely here considering
that data and polling has showed us that
uh sentiment has soured. Look at this
new poll out from the Associated Press
showing that President Trump's handling
of the economy among US adults. That
approval rating has dropped 10
percentage points since March. And
that's really why we've seen this White
House roll out new policies in recent
weeks from farmers aid to investigation
into food supply chains to refloating
the idea of a tariff revenue rebate
check. But Lisa, there is one issue
related to affordability I'm going to
have my eye on. And that of course has
to do with health care, which is really
dominating the conversation here in
Washington today as it looks very likely
that Congress is set to adjourn for the
rest of the year without a way forward
on those expiring Affordable Care Act
premium tax subsidies.
>> Tyler Kendall, thank you so much for all
of the reporting this morning. That is
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall ahead of that
address. Uh affordability front and
center, especially heading into that CPI
report. interesting that this is called
in tandem with that release.
>> Yeah. No, I think tomorrow's CPI report
is definitely going to be interesting.
There's a bit of noise there, right?
You're not really getting an October
print, so it's kind of like a two-month
print. You have to kind of smooth things
over, but I definitely think that the
market's focus is it's right to be
focused on that. Yeah.
>> You know, Damian, thank you so much for
being with us both today and yesterday.
A really interesting moment. It is the
last trading week of a year that has
been full of tumult people heading into
2026 with a similar kind of optimism,
but it has a different flavor, a more
realistic one. As we were just talking
to Mandep about the AI sector in
particular.
>> Yeah. And I think people are right to be
a little bit more nervous about where
they are. I mean, we've just come off a
major major year on both as stocks and
bonds. As I rightly point out, all asset
classes are up and the beta environment
doesn't appear to be shifting all that
much. So, just how much juice is left in
this rally.
>> Damian Sassau, wonderful to have you.
Thank you so much for being with us.
Really great to get your insights.
Coming up tomorrow, Batamanthy of
Cityroup, Puja Kumra of TD Securities,
Tom Kennedy of JP Morgan and Emily
Roland of John Hancock Investment
Management. We will be taking you to
that CPI report. Of course, we're also
going to be getting a host of different
Fed speak, parsing through that as the
Fed race heats up and a whole host of
rate decisions around the world. A real
focus on what 2026 will bring as we try
to end the year in the green. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance from New York.
Good morning.